Item 1. Financial Statements
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies
Business
Symantec Corporation (“Symantec,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Symantec Corporation and all of its subsidiaries) is a global leader in cybersecurity.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”). The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. See Note 6 for more information on the divestiture.
Basis of presentation
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed. Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards. Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the periods and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
Note 4. Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”). We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan and expect additional headcount reductions and facilities closures. We expect to incur additional costs of between $70 million and $90 million in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan primarily consisting of severance and termination benefits and facilities exit costs. These actions are expected to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2019. As of December 29, 2017, liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2022.
Restructuring summary
Note 5. Income Taxes
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, 
we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively. See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations.
Note 6. Acquisitions and Divestiture
Fireglass and Skycure acquisitions
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (“Fireglass”) and Skycure, Ltd. (“Skycure”). Fireglass provides agentless isolation solutions that prevent ransomware, malware and phishing threats in real-time from reaching user endpoints or the corporate network. With this acquisition, we further strengthened our enterprise security strategy to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform and extended our participation in the Secure Web Gateway and Email protection markets delivered both on premises and in the cloud. Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android. This acquisition extends our endpoint security capabilities. With the addition of Skycure our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform now has visibility into and control over all endpoint devices, including mobile devices, whether corporate owned or bring your own device. The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired.
The preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the two acquisitions described above was based upon preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement within the measurement period (up to one year from the close date). Adjustments to the purchase price allocations may require adjustments to goodwill prospectively. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies.
The preliminary goodwill arising from the acquisitions is attributed to the expected synergies, including revenue benefits that are expected to be generated by combining Fireglass and Skycure with Symantec. A portion of the goodwill recognized is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. See Note 7 for more information on goodwill.
Other fiscal 2018 acquisitions
During the nine months ended December 29, 2017, in addition to the acquisitions mentioned above, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $66 million, net of $1 million cash acquired. Of the aggregate purchase price, $48 million was preliminarily recorded to goodwill. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies. These acquisitions were not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.
Fiscal 2017 Blue Coat acquisition
During our second quarter of fiscal 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”). The total consideration for the acquisition was approximately $4.67 billion, net of cash acquired. The Blue Coat results are included in our Enterprise Security segment. See Note 2 for more information related to our segments.
The unaudited pro forma financial results combine the historical results of Symantec and Blue Coat for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 and include the effects of pro forma adjustments as if Blue Coat were acquired in the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year. The pro forma results for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 include nonrecurring adjustments to amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, commissions, interest on debt used to finance the acquisition, and acquisition-related transaction costs, as well as the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments.
LifeLock acquisition-related shareholder settlement
On February 9, 2017, we completed the acquisition of LifeLock, Inc. (“LifeLock”). In connection with this acquisition, we recognized a liability of $68 million for a claim related to appraisal rights by a LifeLock stockholder, which we settled in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for $74 million in cash. The $6 million paid in addition to the recognized liability was recorded to general and administrative expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions in our Enterprise Security segment to DigiCert. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we received aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of October 31, 2017. The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement.
We determined the estimated fair value of our equity investment with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists and estimates made by management. We utilized a combination of the income approach based on a discounted cash flow method and market approach based on the guideline public company method that focuses on comparing DigiCert to reasonably similar publicly traded companies. The equity interest received is being accounted for under the equity method. We record our interest in the net earnings (loss) of DigiCert based on the most recently available financial statements of DigiCert, which are provided to us on a three month lag, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, in Income (loss) from equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Profits or losses related to intra-entity sales with DigiCert are eliminated until realized by us or DigiCert. Basis differences represent differences between the original fair value of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them. The carrying amount of the investment in equity interest will be adjusted to reflect our interest in net earnings, dividends received and other-than-temporary impairments.
As of the transaction close date, we also had $8 million in cumulative currency translation losses related to subsidiaries that were sold, which was reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to the gain on divestiture. In addition, we incurred direct costs of $8 million, which was netted against the gain on divestiture, and tax expense of $137 million.
The gain on sale of short-term investment represents the gain on the sale of a short-term investment that was included in the transaction and resulted in the reclassification on the transaction close date of $7 million of unrealized gains from AOCI to the gain on divestiture.
In connection with the divestiture, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement ("TSA") with DigiCert pursuant to which we provide certain services including human resource services, financial support services and information technology services to 
DigiCert. The services under the TSA commenced with the close of the transaction and expire at various dates through fiscal 2019, with extension options. During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded income of $10 million and associated direct costs of $2 million for all services provided to DigiCert in Other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Note 7. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
See Note 6 for more information on our acquisitions and divestiture.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $28.06 on December 29, 2017, the if-converted values of our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceed the principal amount by approximately $337 million and $469 million, respectively.
Debt repayments
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $130 million of our Senior Term Loan A-3 and $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $1.2 billion of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and $200 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1. We also repaid in cash at maturity the $600 million remaining principal balance of our 2.75% Senior Notes due June 15, 2017.
Assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis
Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds whose carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value. Our short-term investments consist of investment securities with original maturities greater than three months whose fair value approximates their amortized cost and marketable equity securities.
There were no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the nine months ended December 29, 2017.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
Fair value of debt
As of December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the total fair value of our debt was $5.7 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, based on Level 2 inputs.
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity
Dividends
Our restricted stock units and performance based restricted stock units are entitled to dividend equivalents to be paid in the form of cash upon vesting for each share of the underlying unit.
Stock repurchase program
As of December 29, 2017, the remaining balance of our share repurchase authorization is $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
Accelerated stock repurchase agreement
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the ASR agreement, we made an upfront payment of $500 million to the financial institutions and received and retired an initial delivery of 14.2 million shares of our common stock. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the ASR and received and retired an additional delivery of 2.2 million shares of our common stock. The total shares received and retired under the terms of the ASR agreement were 16.4 million, with an average price paid per share of $30.51.
Changes in AOCI by component
Note 11. Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation expense
The tax expense (benefit) associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 reflects the impact of the enactment of the Act. The tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 reflects the historic tax rates.
Litigation contingencies
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (“DOJ”) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”) Multiple Award 
Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012. We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased. The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York. On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit. On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene. On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount. On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
On August 28, 2013, Finjan, Inc. (“Finjan”) filed a complaint against Blue Coat Systems, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that certain Blue Coat products infringe six of Finjan’s U.S. patents. On August 4, 2015, a jury returned a verdict that certain Blue Coat products infringe five of the Finjan patents-in-suit and awarded Finjan lump-sum damages of $40 million. On November 20, 2015, the trial court entered a judgment in favor of Finjan on the jury verdict and certain non-jury legal issues. On July 28, 2016, in its ruling on post-trial motions the trial court denied Blue Coat’s motions seeking a new trial or judgment as a matter of law and denied Finjan’s request for enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. In August 2016, we completed our acquisition of Blue Coat. We subsequently filed an appeal with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. On January 10, 2018, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion favorable to us. The decision reversed or vacated all but $8 million of the judgment against Blue Coat and remanded to the District Court to determine whether Finjan is entitled to a new trial on damages related to one of the patents. Blue Coat previously accrued $40 million in connection with Finjan, which was assumed by us as a part of the acquisition of Blue Coat.
Other
Note 13. Discontinued Operations
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
