Derived from audited financial statements.
Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies
Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cyber security. We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions. Our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity. Our Cyber Safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
Basis of presentation
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019. The results of operations for the three months ended July 5, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
Leases. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We currently do not have any finance leases. We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities. 
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases. The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets. The standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of operations or statements of cash flows. 
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Internal-Use Software. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement. The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. 
Timing of revenue recognition
Contract liabilities
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended July 5, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 29, 2019 was $920 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 29, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 31, 2018 was $848 million. 
Contract acquisition costs
During the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $28 million and $23 million, respectively. There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
Remaining performance obligations
Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029. Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations. Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. We have elected to not recognize a lease liability or right-of-use (ROU) asset for short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset). Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. The interest rate we use to determine the present value of future payments is our incremental borrowing rate because the rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is a hypothetical rate for collateralized borrowings in economic environments where the leased asset is located based on credit rating factors. Our operating lease assets also include adjustments for prepaid lease payments, lease incentives and initial direct costs. 
Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. We elected the practical expedient whereby we record all lease components and the related minimum non-lease components as a single lease component. Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities. Many of our lease terms include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease costs for minimum lease payments for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease agreements do not contain any residual value guarantees. 
Rent expense under operating leases was $19 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018.
See Note 6 for additional cash flow information related to our operating leases.
Note 6. Supplementary Information (in millions)
Note 7. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investment and our long-term debt.
Non-marketable equity investments
As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $186 million and $184 million, respectively. 
Equity method investment
Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in DigiCert Parent Inc. (DigiCert) that had a carrying value of $22 million and $32 million at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, respectively. 
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $26 million during the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. This loss was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On July 9, 2019, DigiCert announced that Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, have reached a definitive agreement to make an investment in DigiCert. As a part of the transaction, Clearlake and TA will become equal partners in DigiCert. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of calendar year 2019, pending customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions. 
As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total fair value of our current and long-term fixed rate debt was $4,029 million and $3,964 million, respectively. The fair value of our variable rate debt approximated its carrying value. The fair values of all our debt obligations were based on Level 2 inputs.
On or after March 4, 2020, holders of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the notes, in cash, equal to the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes. Therefore, as of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the principal amount and associated unamortized discount and issuance costs of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes were classified as Current portion of long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $25.00 on July 5, 2019, the if-converted value of our 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $245 million and the if-converted value of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $281 million.
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021. Borrowings under the revolving facility bear interest at a floating rate of interest plus an applicable margin which is based on our senior unsecured credit agency rating. We are obligated to pay commitment fees on the daily amount of the unused commitment at a rate based on our debt ratings. As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios. As of July 5, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
We conduct business in numerous currencies throughout our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. As part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to twelve months in duration. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
To help protect the net investment in a foreign operation from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we conduct a program under which we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the changes in the carrying amounts of these investments due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As of July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant. During the three months ended July 5, 2019, the net gain recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was insignificant.
The fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts is presented on a gross basis in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. To mitigate losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we have entered into master netting arrangements with our counterparties that allow us to settle payments on a net basis. The effect of netting on our derivative assets and liabilities was not material as of July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
Note 10. Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs
In August 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2019 Plan) under which we will initiate targeted reductions of up to approximately 8% of our global workforce. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the Fiscal 2019 
Plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020. As of July 5, 2019, we have incurred costs of $47 million related to our Fiscal 2019 Plan. 
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the Fiscal 2017 Plan), under which we reduced headcount and closed certain facilities. These actions were completed in fiscal 2019 at a cumulative cost of $289 million related to our Fiscal 2017 Plan. 
Note 11. Income Taxes
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner and concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit). In June 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in three months ended July 5, 2019. On July 22, 2019, the taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and may subsequently appeal from the Ninth Circuit to the Supreme Court. As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain. If the Altera Ninth Circuit Panel Opinion is reversed, we would anticipate recording an income tax benefit at that time.
As of July 5, 2019, $94 million of the gross unrecognized tax benefit was recorded in Deferred income tax liabilities and $417 million was recorded in Long-term income taxes payable.
Note 12. Stockholders' Equity
Dividends
On August 8, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2019. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance-based restricted stock units (PRUs) as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchase program
During the three months ended July 5, 2019, we executed and settled repurchases of 25 million shares for $541 million in the open market at an average price of $21.85 per share. In addition, repurchases of 1 million shares executed during fiscal 2019 settled during the three months ended July 5, 2019. As of July 5, 2019, we had $507 million remaining under the authorization to be completed in future periods with no expiration date.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
Stock-based compensation expense
Liability-classified awards settled in shares
For certain employees, we settled fiscal 2019 bonuses in approximately 1 million RSUs. These awards were granted and vested in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total liability associated with liability-classified awards was $4 million and $22 million, respectively, which is presented in Accrued compensation and benefits in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Note 14. Net Income Per Share
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards. Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. The conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive during the three months ended June 29, 2018 as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period.
•Consumer Cyber Safety. Our Consumer Cyber Safety segment focuses on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed. Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (CODM), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. These unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets; restructuring, transition and other costs.
From time to time, changes in our product hierarchy cause changes to the product categories above. When changes occur, we recast historical amounts to match the current product hierarchy. Endpoint and information protection products include endpoint security, advanced threat protection, information protection solutions, and their related support services. Network and web security products include network security, web security, and cloud security solutions and their related support services. Other products and services primarily consist of email security products, managed security services, consulting, and other professional services.
Consumer security products include Norton security, Norton Secure VPN, and other consumer security solutions. Identity and information protection products include LifeLock identity theft protection and other information protection solutions. 
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $754 million and $688 million during the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively. No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues. 
Most of our assets, as of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019 were attributable to our U.S. operations. The table below represents cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held in the U.S. and internationally in various foreign subsidiaries.
The table below represents our property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, at the end of each period presented.
No other international country represented more than 10% of the respective totals.
Significant customers
In the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
As of July 5, 2019, we had purchase obligations of $1,107 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services. Management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms.
Deemed repatriation taxes
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees, and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements, and we have not accrued any material liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the sale of our Veritas information management business, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses, and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Litigation contingencies 
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the Audit Committee) completed its internal investigation (the Audit Committee Investigation) in September 2018. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in April 2018. The SEC commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the SEC investigation. At this stage, we are unable to assess whether any material loss or adverse effect is reasonably possible as a result of the SEC’s investigation or estimate the range of any potential loss.
Securities Class Action and Derivative Litigation
Securities class action lawsuits, which have since been consolidated, were filed in May 2018 against us and certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The lead plaintiff’s consolidated amended complaint alleged that, during a purported class period of May 11, 2017 to August 2, 2018, defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a), and that certain individuals violated Section 20A, of the Securities Exchange Act. Defendants filed motions to dismiss, which the Court granted in an order dated June 14, 2019. Pursuant to that order, plaintiff was permitted to file a motion seeking leave to amend its claims. Plaintiff filed that motion on July 11, 2019 and defendants are opposing that motion. 
Purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against Symantec and certain of our former officers and current and former directors in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Northern District of California, Delaware Chancery Court, and Delaware Superior Court, arising generally out of the same facts and circumstances as alleged in the securities class action and alleging claims for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims; these lawsuits include an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The derivative actions are currently voluntarily stayed in light of the securities class action. No specific amount of damages has been alleged in these lawsuits. We have also received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law. We will 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012. We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation, and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased. The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York. On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit. On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene. On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount. On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
It is possible that the litigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the False Claims Act and could be material to our results of operations and cash flows for any period. Resolution of False Claims Act investigations can ultimately result in the payment of somewhere between one and three times the actual damages proven by the government, plus civil penalties in some cases, depending upon a number of factors. Our current estimate of the low end of the range of the probable estimated loss from this matter is $25 million, which we have accrued. This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act. There is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred in excess of our accrual for this matter, however, we are currently unable to determine the high end of the range of estimated losses resulting from this matter.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business. Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases. The final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business. We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%. We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring of approximately $100 million, approximately $75 million for severance and termination benefits and $25 million for site closures. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.
Stock repurchase program
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to $1,600 million.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business will allow us to shift our operational focus to our Consumer Cyber Safety business. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2019, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
We are in the process of evaluating the transaction and its impact on our consolidated financial statements, including evaluating the resulting net gain and expenses that will be recognized, based on the terms of the definitive agreement. The Company's U.S. and foreign income taxes payable resulting from the transaction are estimated to range from $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion.
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
The announcement and pendency of the sale of our Enterprise Security assets, whether or not completed, may adversely affect our Enterprise Security and our Cyber Safety Security segment.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and assumption of certain liabilities (the Sale). The announcement and pendency of the Sale may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding securities, our business or our relationships with customers, contract manufacturers, suppliers, business partners and employees. Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business. New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable. Additionally, employees working in the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business may become concerned about the future of the Enterprise Security or the Cyber Safety Security business, as applicable, and lose focus or seek other employment. In addition, while the completion of the Sale is pending, we may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and our management’s focus and attention and employee resources may be diverted from operational matters.
In addition, if the Sale is not completed, our Board of Directors, in discharging its fiduciary obligations to our stockholders, may evaluate other strategic options including, but not limited to, continuing to operate the Enterprise Security business for the foreseeable future or an alternative sale transaction relating to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business. An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay. 
•Fluctuations in our revenue due to the transition of our sales contracts to a higher mix of products subject to ratable versus point-in-time revenue recognition;
•Fluctuations in demand for our solutions;
•Our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins and revenues;
•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of our solutions;
•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions;
•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware, and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches);
•Customers’ tendency to negotiate licenses and other agreements near the end of each quarter;
•Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers;
•Loss of customers or strategic partners;
•Changes in the mix or type of products and subscriptions sold and changes in the renewal rates for our subscriptions;
•The rate of adoption of new technologies, new releases of operating systems, and new business processes;
•The timing, rate and pricing of customer purchases to replace older versions of our hardware products that have reached end of life; 
•The impact of litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations; 
•The impact of acquisitions and our ability to achieve expected synergies;
•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters;
•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;
•Movements in interest rates; and
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.
Our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services, and cloud-based (cloud) offerings.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers;
•Evolving platforms, operating systems, and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges;
•Entering into new or unproven markets;
•Executing new product and service strategies;
•Developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. For example, we have initiated a Chief Executive Officer transition process, and appointed an interim President and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, our Chief Operating Officer resigned in November 2018 and, as previously disclosed, we recently appointed a new Chief Financial Officer. Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and 
Our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and internet service providers (ISPs). Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own. In addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
We face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers, and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. Many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
Our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks.
•Continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based solutions that generate increasing traffic and market share; and
•Ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we also continue to invest significantly in research and development activities, in both the short and long term, as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods. We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and 
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC. The SEC commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. If the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC in connection with the completed Audit Committee Investigation, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until December 2019, at the earliest. Registering the offer and sale of our securities prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3 may increase our transaction costs, and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current, and future investigations and litigation. 
The scope of our indemnification obligations may be broader than the coverage available under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims. Further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute. Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
We currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe. Damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. Global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding. Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications, and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions. Our customers’ computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks, and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and websites may cause.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
We collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings. We process an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer 
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues. 
Data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the U.S. at both the federal and state level. For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which will come into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. However, California legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the CCPA or how it will be interpreted. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. The burdens imposed by the CCPA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply. 
 Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country. If any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply. The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition.
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk. In addition, our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
•Complexity, time, and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, IT systems, and technologies;
•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;
•Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including pending or future litigation, investigations or claims related to the acquired business or assets;
•The addition of acquisition-related debt;
•Increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements;
•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders;
•Unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and
•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire. The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. To integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts;
•Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization;
•Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our solutions, including regular updates to our products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates;
•Increased administrative costs in processing orders and increased credit risk in pursuing payment from each end user; and
•Increased responsibility for custom and export activities that may result in added costs.
•Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers;
•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;
•Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our solutions to end-users;
•Our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions;
•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and
•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us.
•Our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery;
•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements. Generally, our OEM partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers;
•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales;
•The development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues;
•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
We are subject to heightened regulation in our Consumer Cyber Safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we sell as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services. Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
•Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions, and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations;
•Potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors;
•Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications;
•Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;
•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the U.S.;
•Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations;
•Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;
•Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations;
•Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations;
•Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries;
•Costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and
•Political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities.
A significant portion of our transactions outside of the U.S. is denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the U.S. continue to increase.
For example, the United Kingdom’s (U.K.) planned exit from the European Union (EU) (Brexit) has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets and will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. In the absence of a future trade deal, the U.K.’s trade with the European Union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the World Trade Organization. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. While we have not experienced any material financial impact from Brexit on our business to date, we cannot predict its 
future implications. Any impact from Brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the U.K. conducts. 
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets.
•We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility, our existing senior notes, and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions;
•We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes;
•We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates;
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. 
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise. In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
•Incur additional debt;
•Create liens on certain assets to secure debt;
•Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;
•Pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and
•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.
All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
