fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
This ASU is effective immediately as new information is available to adjust provisional amounts that were previously recorded.


item2.txt
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Our sterilization and disinfection control division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Our revenues come from three main sources – hardware, consumables, and services.
We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions.
Accordingly, it may vary with sales levels.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.


