fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.


item2.txt
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
We are hopeful that we will have new products and services available for sale in the coming year.
Overall revenues increased eight percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of nine percent and three percent from the Instruments and SDC Divisions, respectively, partially offset by organic decreases of six percent and 11 percent for the Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively.
However, the adoption rate of the product has increased over the past year.
The higher-than-usual order rate was not sustained in the second quarter, resulting in organic growth declines for the three months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.


