fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc. Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC.
We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
We are hopeful that we will have enhanced or new products and services available for sale in the coming year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.


