The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations, backlog, our industry and government budgets and spending.
Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated periodically through our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Due to such uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Overview


Business Environment and Trends 

U.S. Government Markets

During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provided $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
