Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
We have invested our available cash in short-term, highly liquid financial instruments, having initial maturities of three months or less.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.
At March 31, 2018, we had total debt of $2,030.9 million, including $1,430.9 million of variable interest rate debt.
As of March 31, 2018, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of approximately $14.3 million per year.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, approximately 28% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States.
A portion of the revenues from clients located outside the United States is denominated in foreign currencies, the majority being the Canadian dollar.
While revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies, some subsidiaries do enter into certain transactions in currencies that are different from their local currency.
These transactions consist primarily of cross-currency intercompany balances and trade receivables and payables.
As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).
These outstanding amounts were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The amount of these balances can fluctuate in the future as we bill customers and buy products or services in currencies other than our functional currency, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates.
We continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange rates as a result of our acquisitions and changes in our operations.
We do not enter into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes.
The foregoing risk management discussion and the effect thereof are forward-looking statements.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in global financial markets.
The analytical methods used by us to assess and minimize risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future events or losses.
