PART II – OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
In addition, we are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses.
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.
While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, it is in the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
If any of these risks occur, it could materially affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition and possibly lead to a decline in our stock price.
The risks and uncertainties that we have disclosed are those that
we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.
Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also impair our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.
Item 6.
Exhibits
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
EXHIBIT INDEX
submitted electronically herewith
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
