Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as  


of June 30, 2019, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
We implemented changes to internal controls due to the adoption of Accounting Standard Update No.
2016-02, Leases (Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842) effective January 1, 2019.
These changes included new lease accounting processes to evaluate and account for contracts under the new accounting standard.
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.
Except as disclosed above, there have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings 

The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
In addition, we are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses.
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.
While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, it is in the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
If any of these risks occur, it could materially affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition and possibly lead to a decline in our stock price.
The risks and uncertainties that we have disclosed are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.
Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also impair our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.
Item 6.
Exhibits 

The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
EXHIBIT INDEX 



Filed herewith.
SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
