Item 1.
Financial Statements
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1—Basis of Presentation
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on March 1, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of our financial position as of June 30, 2019, the results of our operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and our cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
These statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, which were included in the 2018 Form 10-K.
The December 31, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
See Note 3, “Leases” for further details.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Note 2—Property, Plant and equipment, net
Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $31.1 million and $63.1 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $28.5 million and $35.3 million, respectively.
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception.
A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments.
Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our estimated secured incremental borrowing rate within each of the significant geographic regions in which we operate based on the information available at lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease agreements typically do not contain variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, or restrictive covenants.
Many of our leases include the option to renew, however we do not believe it is reasonably certain that we will exercise the options as each individual lease is evaluated and further negotiated prior to the end of the current lease terms.
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.
We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements.
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $39.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.6 million and $36.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of June 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively.
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space.
In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities.
Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.
Fair Value Measurement
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.
Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Included in Other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities was adjusted upward by $0.5 million.
We have partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the tables above.
Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors.
One of our investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2019, represented 82% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio.
We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent.
This fund has a termination date in 2020 with an optional one-year extension at the discretion of the general partner.
We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown.
We have no unfunded commitments related to this fund.
Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of June 30, 2019.
Generally, our investments in private equity funds are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted.
Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities.
Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so.
We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them.
As of June 30, 2019, we did not have
plans to sell any of these investments.
The maximum risk of loss related to our private equity fund investments is limited to the carrying value of its investments in the entities plus any future capital commitments, which include future commitments that we believe are unlikely to be called by the general partner.
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
One of the unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate swap agreement.
We record our proportionate share of the change in value of the interest rate swap agreement in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to net income are recorded in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss).
The following unaudited pro forma information is provided for illustrative purposes only and assumes that the acquisitions of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”), CACEIS North America, Eze Software Group, LLC and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. occurred on January 1, 2017, after giving effect to certain adjustments, including amortization of intangibles, interest, transaction costs and tax effects.
This unaudited pro forma information (in millions, except per share data) should not be relied upon as being indicative of the historical results that would have been obtained if the acquisitions had actually occurred on that date, nor of the results that may be obtained in the future.
Senior Notes
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.
The indenture governing the Senior Notes contains a number of covenants that restrict, subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, our ability and the ability of our domestic restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make certain investments, pay dividends, dispose of certain assets, or enter into transactions with its affiliates.
Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes.
Debt issuance costs and loss on extinguishment of debt
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting.
We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%.
As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices.
The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
Dividends.
In 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $50.6 million in the aggregate.
In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate.
We generate revenues primarily through our software-enabled services.
Our software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party.
We also generate revenues by licensing our software to clients through either perpetual or term licenses and by selling maintenance services.
Maintenance services are generally provided under annually renewable contracts.
Our pricing typically scales as a function of our clients’ assets under management, the complexity of asset classes managed, the volume of transactions, and the level of service the client requires.
Revenues from professional services consist mostly of services provided on a time and materials basis.
Deferred revenues primarily represent unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services.
Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) we perform under the contract.
Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level.
Accordingly, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $39.9 million and $32.4 million, respectively, of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $59.6 million and $146.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, revenue of approximately $364.4 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $208.7 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months.
We record revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities.
Revenue Disaggregation
Note 11—Stock Based Compensation
The effective tax rate was 22.0% and (61.0)% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and 19.9% and (87.7)% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The change in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to the acquisition of DST during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result.
Note 13—Earnings per Share
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance with the relevant standards.
Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to our common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.
Common equivalent shares consist of stock options, SARs, RSUs and restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) using the treasury stock method.
Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.
Stock options and SARs representing 4.1 and 4.4 million shares were outstanding for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.
No dilutive securities have been included in the diluted EPS calculation for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our reported net loss for the three and six months then ended.
Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies
From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims.
In the opinion of management, we are not involved in any litigation or proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on us or our business.
Legal Proceedings
In connection with an investigation of the Plan and the activities of its fiduciaries, the U.S. Department of Labor through its Employee Benefits Security Administration issued a letter dated February 23, 2018 stating that, based on facts gathered, it appeared that certain fiduciaries of the Plan may have breached their fiduciary obligations and violated certain provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act in connection with the administration of the Plan.
The letter stated that if the fiduciaries fail to take corrective action, the matter may be referred to the Office of the Solicitor of Labor for possible legal action.
The letter further stated that if the fiduciaries take proper corrective action based on a settlement agreement with the Department of Labor, it will not bring a lawsuit with regard to these issues, and close its investigation without further action.
In March 2019, DST agreed to extend the statute of limitations applicable to such a lawsuit based on a request from the Department of Labor as its investigation is ongoing.
We have not yet determined what effect this matter will have, if any, on our financial position or results of operations.
DST, the Advisory Committee of the Plan, and the Compensation Committee of DST’s Board of Directors have been named in 377 substantially similar individual demands for arbitration through July 26, 2019, by former and current DST employees demanding arbitration under the DST Employee Arbitration Program and Agreement.
The underlying claim in each is the same as in the above-described Ferguson matter, with the exception that each is an individual claim and not a putative class action.
As of July 26, 2019, the
parties jointly submitted 315 of the demands for arbitration to the American Arbitration Association.
The remaining demands for arbitration have not yet been submitted.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
In addition, we are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses.
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.
While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, it is in the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
If any of these risks occur, it could materially affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition and possibly lead to a decline in our stock price.
The risks and uncertainties that we have disclosed are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.
Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also impair our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.
Item 6.
Exhibits
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
EXHIBIT INDEX
Filed herewith.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
