Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
We have generally invested our available cash in short-term, highly liquid financial instruments, having initial maturities of three months or less.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.
Interest rate risk
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.
The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.3 billion maintained in such accounts.
We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $9.3 million of net income on an annual basis.
The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.
At June 30, 2019, we had total variable interest rate debt of approximately $5.9 billion.
As of June 30, 2019, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of approximately $59.1 million per year.
Equity price risk
We have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investments in equity securities.
Equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes.
The fair value of our investments that are subject to equity price risk as of June 30, 2019 was approximately $138.9 million.
The impact of a 10% change in fair value of these investments would have been approximately $10.3 million to net income.
Changes in equity values of our investments could have a material effect on our results of operations and our financial position.
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 27% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States.
A portion of the revenues from clients located outside the United States is denominated in foreign currencies, the majority being the British pound.
While revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies, some subsidiaries do enter into certain transactions in currencies that are different from their local currency.
These transactions consist primarily of cross-currency intercompany balances and trade receivables and payables.
As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).
These outstanding amounts were not material for the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The amount of these balances can fluctuate in the future as we bill customers and buy products or services in currencies other than our functional currency, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates.
We continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange rates because of our acquisitions and changes in our operations.
We do not enter into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes.
The foregoing risk management discussion and the effect thereof are forward-looking statements.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in global financial markets.
The analytical methods used by us to assess and minimize risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future events or losses.
