An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
We have increased our focus on Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings, which support accelerated growth in our Graphic solutions.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as forecasted declining PC Client markets and home printing markets.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution in an evolving distribution and reseller landscape, with increasing omnichannel presence.
•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with industry component availability.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs impacting our bill of materials.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
We also continue to work on optimizing our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
We recognize revenue depicting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we are expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
We evaluate customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and while many of our sales contracts contain standard terms and conditions, there are contracts which contain non-standard terms and conditions.
Further, many of our arrangements include multiple performance obligations.
As a result, significant contract interpretation may be required to determine the appropriate accounting, including the identification of performance obligations considered to be separate units of accounting, the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations in the arrangement and the timing of transfer of control of promised goods or services for each of those performance obligations.
We evaluate each performance obligation in an arrangement to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting.
A performance obligation constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the performance obligation is distinct within the context of the contract.
Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, we estimate the amount using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
We reduce the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
separately (“observable price”) and, in some instances, using the price established by management having the relevant authority.
Consideration is also given to market conditions such as competitor pricing strategies and technology industry life cycles.
In most arrangements with multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation at the inception of the arrangement based on their relative selling price.
However, the aforementioned factors may result in a different SSP determination applying management judgments and estimates.
This may change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for identical arrangements executed in future periods but will not change the total revenue recognized for any given arrangement.
 Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
We generally invoice the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms.
For fixed price support or maintenance and other service contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.
In instances when revenue is derived from sales of third-party vendor products or services, we record revenue on a gross basis when we are a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when we are acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.
In January 2019, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to Global Minimum Tax inclusions or to treat any taxes on Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election.
We have elected to treat the Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period costs.
Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States.
For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis.
Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.
For the three months ended April 30, 2019, total net revenue remained flat (increased 2% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue decreased 1% to $4.6 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 1% to $9.4 billion.
U.S. net revenue decreased 1% to $9.5 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 2% to $19.2 billion.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
For the three months ended April 30, 2019, our gross margin increased by 0.1 percentage point as compared to the prior-year period.
For the six months ended April 30, 2019, our gross margin increased by 0.1 percentage point as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase is primarily driven by higher rate in Personal Systems due to lower supply chain costs, partially offset by unfavorable segment mix.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.
Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
Acquisition-related charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs.
Interest and other, net expense decreased by $778 million and $760 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period, as Interest and other, net expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 included reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt.
Our effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162%) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203%) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, we recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net income tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
These amounts included tax benefits of $42 million and $48 million related to one-time items for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $26 million related to restructuring charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
These benefits were partially offset by uncertain tax position charges of $12 million and $32 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively and other charges of $4 million and $14 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
The six months ended April 30, 2019 also included a tax benefit of $21 million related to final tax reform adjustments.
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded $20 million of excess tax benefits associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred taxes that were expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented an organizational change to align our business unit financial reporting more closely with our current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment.
We reflected this change to our business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.
Personal Systems net revenue increased 1.8% (increased 4.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Desktops, Notebooks and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 3.3% increase in average selling prices (“ASPs”), partially offset by a 1.5% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in ASPs was due to higher pricing and positive mix shifts, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
The decrease in unit volume was primarily due to decline in Consumer units driven by demand weakness, partially offset by an increase in Commercial units.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 6.7% and Consumer revenue decreased 9.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue increased 6.8% in Desktops and 5.8% in Workstations and decreased 1.0% in Notebooks as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 4.5% increase in ASPs, partially offset by a 2.3% decrease in unit volume, as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in ASPs was due to positive mix shifts and higher pricing, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
The decrease in unit volume was primarily due to decline in Consumer units driven by demand weakness, partially offset by an increase in Commercial units.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 4.8% and Consumer revenue decreased 3.3% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Printing net revenue decreased 2.4% (decreased 1.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 3.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
Printer unit volume decreased 3.8% and ASPs decreased 2.0% as compared to the prior-year period.
The decrease in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit decreases in Consumer Hardware.
Printer ASPs decreased primarily due to higher discounting.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 3.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 8.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 4.0% decrease in printer unit volume and 5.6% decrease in ASPs.
The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the Inkjet Home Consumer and LaserJet Home Business.
The decrease in ASPs was primarily driven by higher discounting.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense spend favorability.
Printing net revenue decreased 1.4% (decreased 1.2% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 2.8% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
Printer unit volume decreased 0.6% and ASPs decreased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period.
The decrease in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit decrease in Consumer Hardware.
Printer ASPs decreased primarily due to higher discounting.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 4.0% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the acquisition of the Apogee group.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 3.3% as compared to the prior-year period, due to a 0.7% decrease in printer unit volume and by 3.3% decrease in ASPs.
The unit volume decrease was primarily driven by the InkJet Home Consumer Business.
The decrease in ASPs was primarily driven by higher discounting.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.4 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by decline in gross margin.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense spend favorability.
The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.
We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity.
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs and may from time to time be distributed to the United States.
The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning in the current fiscal year.
As we evaluate the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, or other uses.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $0.3 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to working capital management activities.
DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding.
The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable revenue linearity.
DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The decrease in DOS was primarily due to reduction in inventory driven by reclassification of certain balances to other current assets, pursuant to adoption of the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.4 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to lower payment of debt of $1.5 billion partially offset by a decrease in outstanding commercial paper amounts of $0.9 billion.
We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure.
Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps.
For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
For more information on our borrowings, see Note 9, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of April 30, 2019, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2019 of approximately $31 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $15 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $6 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans.
Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
We expect to make future cash payments of approximately $207 million in connection with our cost savings plans.
For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of April 30, 2019, we had approximately $1.4 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions.
Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used.
The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning in the current fiscal year.
As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers.
For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions.
