Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Other than the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended January 31, 2019 and April 30, 2019.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
In addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs.
We may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate.
We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance.
We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments.
We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security.
We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines.
As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.
Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas.
In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us.
If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer.
Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate.
Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers.
Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors.
For example, non-original supplies (including imitation, refill or remanufactured alternatives) for some of our LaserJet toner and InkJet cartridges compete with our Printing Supplies business.
Customers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products.
These resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including non-original supplies, or they may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies.
For example, we have in the past experienced the impacts of macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions and markets, and we may experience similar impacts in the future.
Ongoing U.S. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products and services.
Political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding Brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the United States and China, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions or drive political or national sentiment weakening demand for our products and services.
Economic weakness and uncertainty and political or nationalist sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-U.S. consumers to purchase goods or services from U.S. corporations, may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses.
In addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers-and our suppliers from their suppliers-due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit.
Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses.
Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments.
Economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses.
We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers.
Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products.
Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
Net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken, or if our distributors cannot successfully compete in the online or omnichannel marketplace.
Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.
We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges.
Sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of our products could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market.
If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory.
In addition, factors in different markets may cause differential discounting between the geographies where our products are sold, which makes it difficult to achieve global consistency in pricing and creates the opportunity for grey marketing.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions.
As of July 31, 2019, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Other Information.
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
‡ Filed herewith.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
