Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. (“HP”) and entered into a separation and distribution agreement as well as various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties, including among others a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition service agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a master commercial agreement and an information technology service agreement.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for business combinations.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
HP is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
Under the current amendments, HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments (Topic 606) are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).
HP will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and intends to apply the modified retrospective method.
Based on the initial assessment, it is not anticipated that the adoption will have a material impact on the amount or timing of revenue recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services.
HP sells to individual consumers, small and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise and SMBs, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.
Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.
•Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.
•Office Printing Solutions delivers HP’s office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises.
It also includes Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd (“Samsung”)-branded and Original Equipment Manufacturer (“OEM”) hardware, supplies and solutions.
Ongoing key initiatives include design and deployment of A3 products and solutions for the copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.
•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home and home business or small office customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through the largest portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
•Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from Ink and Laser cartridges to media, graphics supplies, 3D Printing supplies and Samsung-branded A4 and A3 supplies and OEM supplies, for recurring use in Consumer and Commercial Hardware.
Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
The accounting policies HP uses to derive segment results are substantially the same as those used in preparing these financial statements.
HP derives the results of the business segments directly from its internal management reporting system.
HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment.
Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments.
HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact on previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share.
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which it had expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
HP expected around 4,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019.
On May 26, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors approved amending the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
HP now expects approximately 4,500 to 5,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019, subject to certain jurisdictional labor law requirements.
In connection with the Separation, on September 14, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors approved a cost savings plan (the “Fiscal 2015 Plan”), which includes labor and non-labor actions.
The Fiscal 2015 Plan was considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan.
HP initiated a restructuring plan in fiscal year 2012 (the “Fiscal 2012 Plan”), which includes severance and infrastructure costs.
The Fiscal 2012 Plan was considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP incurred $11 million and $24 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP incurred $22 million and $53 million of other charges, respectively.
HP’s policy is to fund its pension plans so that it makes at least the minimum contribution required by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
During fiscal year 2018, HP anticipates making contributions of approximately $33 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, including an increase of $9 million related to the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business, approximately $33 million to its U.S. non-qualified plan participants and approximately $7 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
During the six months ended April 30, 2018, HP contributed $16 million to its non-U.S. pension plans and paid $20 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants.
HP’s pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on various assumptions.
HP’s stock-based compensation plans permit the issuance of restricted stock awards, stock options and performance-based awards.
As of April 30, 2018, there was $282 million of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 1.4 years.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value that option holders would have realized had all option holders exercised their options on the last trading day of the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 was $40 million and $70 million respectively.
As of April 30, 2018, there was $3 million of unrecognized pre-tax, stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which HP expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 0.4 years.
In January 2018, the Board approved an amendment and restatement of HP’s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, which included retiring 80 million shares from the plan’s share reserves.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into the tax matters agreement (“TMA”) with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, effective on November 1, 2015.
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.
The net receivable as of April 30, 2018 was $898 million.
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed by the President of the United States and enacted into law.
When a U.S. federal tax rate change occurs during a fiscal year, taxpayers are required to compute a weighted daily average rate for the fiscal year of enactment.
HP expects the U.S. federal statutory rate to be 21% for fiscal years beginning after October 31, 2018.
Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118), which allows registrants to record provisional amounts during a one year “measurement period”.
The impacts of HP's estimates are described further below.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, due to additional information and a subsequent refinement of its analysis HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate by recording a valuation allowance.
As a result of the deemed repatriation tax noted above, which is based on HP’s total post-1986 deferred foreign income, HP redetermined $5.5 billion of its U.S. deferred tax liability on those unremitted earnings with a provisional tax payable of $3.1 billion, as noted above.
This resulted in a net benefit.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP remeasured its deferred taxes to reflect the reduced rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods.
HP has not yet completed the accounting for the remeasurement of deferred taxes.
Since HP has a fiscal year ending October 31, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.
Therefore, a blended rate of 23% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
HP’s effective tax rate was (1,162%) and 25.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and (203%) and 23.5% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As noted above, HP has not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the remeasurement of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $33 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
HP has agreed with all of the adjustments contained within the various final closing agreements and has redetermined its unrecognized tax positions for all open years based on the closing agreements and associated information and analysis of those agreements.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP recorded $4 million and $5 million, respectively, of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
These amounts included a tax benefit of $12 million and $31 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, respectively, related to restructuring charges.
The three months ended April 30, 2017 also included various other tax charges of $8 million.
The six months ended April 30, 2017 also included a tax charge of $26 million related to state provision to return adjustments.
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $2.8 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2018, primarily related to the resolution of various audits.
As of April 30, 2018, HP had accrued $141 million for interest and penalties.
These unrecognized tax benefits have associated gain contingencies which will be settled in the same period resulting in a net release of $822 million.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the recourse obligation is measured using market data from the similar transactions and reported as a current liability in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
The recourse obligations as of April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017 were not material.
The costs associated with the sales of trade receivables for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were not material.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 1—Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2—Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability and market-corroborated inputs.
Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to observable inputs and lowest priority to unobservable inputs.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the six months ended April 30, 2018.
All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition are considered cash equivalents.
As of April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.
Equity securities in privately held companies include cost basis and equity method investments and are included in Other non-current assets on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
These amounted to $33 million and $37 million as of April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity exposures.
HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items.
Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, HP categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
As a result of its use of derivative instruments, HP is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will fail to meet their contractual obligations.
Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
If HP’s or the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives’ net liability position.
The fair value of derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $217 million and $258 million as of April 30, 2018 and as of October 31, 2017, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days.
Under HP’s derivative contracts, the counterparty can terminate all outstanding trades following a covered change of control event affecting HP that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating.
This credit contingent provision did not affect HP’s financial position or cash flows as of April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
HP’s foreign currency cash flow hedges mature generally within twelve months.
However, hedges related to longer-term procurement arrangements extend several years and forward contracts associated with intercompany loans extend for the duration of the loan term, which typically range from two to five years.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as the hedged transaction.
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency-denominated balance sheet exposures.
HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
which ineffectiveness occurs.
Amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period they arise.
As of April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges.
Hedge ineffectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges recognized in earnings were not material for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017.
In March 2018, HP terminated several interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $1.5 billion that were de-designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed rate debt securities.
See Note 10, “Borrowings” for detailed information.
As disclosed in Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
Interest rates shown in the table of long-term debt have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps.
In March 2018, HP commenced and completed a cash tender offer (the “Tender Offer") to purchase approximately $1.85 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding U.S. Dollar 4.650% Global Notes due December 9, 2021, 4.375% Global Notes due September 15, 2021 and 4.300% Global Notes due June 1, 2021.
In connection with the Tender Offer, HP also solicited consents from holders of its 4.650% Notes due December 2021, (the “4.650% Notes”) to amend the indenture under which the 4.650% Notes were issued to, among other things, eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants of the indenture (the “Proposed Amendments”).
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding 4.650% Notes consented to the Proposed Amendments, and as a result, a supplemental indenture was executed on March 26, 2018 to effect the Proposed Amendments.
On November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities.
HP increased the issuance authorization under its commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017.
As of April 30, 2018, HP maintained two commercial paper programs.
HP’s Euro program provides for the issuance of commercial paper outside of the United States denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros or British pounds up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion or the equivalent in those alternative
As of April 30, 2018, HP maintains a $4.0 billion, senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper or for general corporate purposes.
Commitments under the revolving credit facility will be available until March 30, 2023.
Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facilities vary based on HP’s external credit ratings.
As of April 30, 2018, HP was in compliance with the financial covenants in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility.
In December 2017, HP also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides HP with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018.
As of April 30, 2018, HP and its subsidiaries had available borrowing resources of $722 million from uncommitted lines of credit in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facilities discussed above.
HP’s share repurchase program authorizes both open market and private repurchase transactions.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 35 million shares and 56 million shares and settled total shares for $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 13 million shares and 39 million shares and settled total shares for $0.2 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively.
Share repurchases executed during the three months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017 included 0.6 million and 1 million shares settled in May 2018 and May 2017, respectively.
The shares repurchased during the six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were all open market repurchase transactions.
HP calculates basic net EPS using net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted net EPS includes any dilutive effect of restricted stock awards, stock options, performance-based awards and shares purchased under the 2011 employee stock purchase plan.
HP is involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including those identified below, consisting of intellectual property, commercial, securities, employment, employee benefits and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP shares responsibility with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain matters, as indicated below, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in whole or in part with respect to certain matters.
Based on its experience, HP believes that any damage amounts claimed in the specific matters discussed below are not a meaningful indicator of HP’s potential liability.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable.
However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it.
Copyright Levies.
HP, other companies and various industry associations have opposed the extension of levies to the digital environment and have advocated alternative models of compensation to rights holders.
Reprobel, a collecting society administering the remuneration for reprography to Belgian copyright holders, requested by extrajudicial means that HP amend certain copyright levy declarations submitted for inkjet MFDs sold in Belgium from January 2005 to December 2009 to enable it to collect copyright levies calculated based on the generally higher copying speed when the MFDs are operated in draft print mode rather than when operated in normal print mode.
on sales of MFDs in Belgium or, alternatively, that payments already made by HP are sufficient to comply with its obligations.
On November 12, 2015, the CJEU published its judgment providing that a national legislation such as the Belgian one at issue in the main proceedings is incompatible with EU law on multiple legal points, as argued by HP, and returned the proceedings to the referring court.
Based on industry opposition to the extension of levies to digital products, HP’s assessments of the merits of various proceedings and HP’s estimates of the number of units impacted and the amounts of the levies, HP has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the ongoing disputes.
Hewlett-Packard Company v. Oracle Corporation.
On June 15, 2011, HP filed suit against Oracle Corporation (“Oracle”) in California Superior Court in Santa Clara County in connection with Oracle’s March 2011 announcement that it was discontinuing software support for HP’s Itanium-based line of mission-critical servers.
HP asserted, among other things, that Oracle’s actions breached the contract that was signed by the parties as part of the settlement of the litigation relating to Oracle’s hiring of Mark Hurd.
The matter eventually progressed to trial, which was bifurcated into two phases.
HP prevailed in the first phase of the trial, in which the court ruled that the contract at issue required Oracle to continue to offer its software products on HP’s Itanium-based servers for as long as HP decided to sell such servers.
On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeals rejected Oracle’s appeal.
The matter was remanded to the trial court for the second phase of the trial, which began on May 23, 2016 and was submitted to the jury on June 29, 2016.
On October 20, 2016, the court entered judgment for HP for this amount with interest accruing until the judgment is paid.
Oracle’s motion for a new trial was denied on December 19, 2016, and Oracle filed its notice of appeal from the trial court’s judgment on January 17, 2017.
On February 2, 2017, HP filed a notice of cross-appeal challenging the trial court’s denial of prejudgment interest.
The schedule for appellate briefing and argument has not yet been established.
HP expects that the appeals process could take several years to complete.
The amount ultimately awarded, if any, would be recorded in the period received.
No adjustment has been recorded in the financial statements in relation to this potential award.
Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share equally in any recovery from Oracle once Hewlett Packard Enterprise has been reimbursed for all costs incurred in the prosecution of the action prior to the Separation.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
Plaintiffs seek to certify a nationwide collective class action under the ADEA comprised of all U.S. residents employed by defendants who had their employment terminated pursuant to a workforce reduction (“WFR”) plan on or after May 23, 2012 and who were 40 years of age or older.
Plaintiffs also seek to represent a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years or older employed by defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after May 23, 2012.
Following a partial motion to dismiss, a motion to strike and a motion to compel arbitration that the defendants filed in November 2016, the plaintiffs amended their complaint.
On January 30, 2017, the defendants filed another partial motion to dismiss and motions to compel arbitration as to several of the plaintiffs.
On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs.
On September 20, 2017, the Court granted the motions to compel arbitration as to the plaintiffs and opt-ins who signed WFR release agreements (17 individuals), and also stayed the entire case until the arbitrations are completed.
On November 30, 2017, three named plaintiffs and twelve opt-in plaintiffs filed a single arbitration demand.
On December 22, 2017, the defendants filed a motion to (1) stay the case pending arbitrations and (2) enjoin the demanded arbitration and require each plaintiff to file a separate arbitration demand.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants engaged in a pattern and practice of racial and age discrimination in lay-offs and promotions.
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on September 29, 2017.
The defendants also moved to dismiss the claims on various grounds and to strike certain aspects of the proposed class definition.
The defendants’ motions remain pending.
India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products-related show cause notice.
The differential duty demand is subject to interest.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
HP India filed appeals of the Commissioner’s orders before the Customs Tribunal along with applications for waiver of the pre-deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals.
The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal.
On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013.
The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order.
On February 7, 2014, the application for extension of the stay of deposit was granted by the Customs Tribunal until disposal of the appeals.
On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner’s orders.
The Customs Tribunal rejected HP India’s request to remand the matter to the Commissioner on procedural grounds.
The hearings scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015 and again on November 3, 2015 and April 11, 2016 were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
Russia GPO Anti-Corruption Investigation.
The German Public Prosecutor’s Office (“German PPO”) conducted an investigation into allegations that current and former employees of HP engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion relating to a transaction between Hewlett-Packard ISE GmbH in Germany, a former subsidiary of HP, and the General Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Federation.
The approximately $35 million transaction, which was referred to as the Russia GPO deal, spanned the years 2001 to 2006 and was for the delivery and installation of an IT network.
The German PPO issued an indictment of four individuals, including one current and two former HP employees, on charges including bribery, breach of trust and tax evasion.
The German PPO also requested that HP be made an associated party to the case, and, if that request is granted, HP would participate in any portion of the court proceedings that could ultimately bear on the question of whether HP should be subject to potential disgorgement of profits based on the conduct of the indicted current and former employees.
On August 29, 2017, the Regional Court of Leipzig decided not to admit the matter to trial.
On March 20, 2018, the Higher Regional Court in Dresden agreed with the decision to not admit the matter to trial.
In light of this decision, the prosecution is expected to come to an end.
On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities.
On November 14, 2016, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Sushovan Hussain, the former CFO of Autonomy.
A jury trial commenced on February 26, 2018.
On April 30, 2018, the jury found Mr. Hussain guilty of all charges against him.
On November 15, 2016, the SEC announced that Stouffer Egan, the former CEO of Autonomy’s U.S.-based operations, settled charges relating to his participation in an accounting scheme to meet internal sales targets and analyst revenue expectations.
HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.
Autonomy Corporation Limited v. Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
On October 1, 2015, Messrs. Lynch and Hussain filed their defenses.
The Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary claimants filed their replies to the defenses and the asserted counter-claim on March 11, 2016.
The parties are actively engaged in the disclosure process.
A six-month trial is scheduled to begin on March 25, 2019.
HP’s operations and products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of HP’s products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of those products.
environmental laws or if its products become noncompliant with environmental laws.
The amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict.
HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee.
HP believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote.
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
Under the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
HP accrues the estimated cost of product warranties at the time it recognizes revenue.
On November 1, 2017, HP completed the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
With this acquisition, HP now offers the industry’s strongest portfolio of A3 multifunction printers that deliver the simplicity of printers with the high performance of copiers.
The fully integrated portfolio, including next-generation PageWide technologies, offers opportunities to grow managed print and document services as sales models shift from transactional to contractual.
HP reports the financial results of the above business in the Printing segment.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.
During the six months ended April 30, 2018, the increase in gross intangible assets was primarily due to intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
The reported amounts are based on preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
