Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
In order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions.
However, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties.
In the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation techniques such as firmware updates.
Furthermore, mitigation techniques for vulnerabilities in third-party components may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions.
As of January 31, 2018, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 52 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.‡
‡ Filed herewith.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.
