Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share (“EPS”).
 On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
The amendments in this guidance are to be applied retrospectively for presentation in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
A practical expedient allows companies to use the amount disclosed in its pension and other post-retirement plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements.
The adoption of this guidance has no impact on net earnings.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses and a reduction in interest and other, net of $58 million and $118 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
The guidance (Topic 740) requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in $353 million of net reduction to its prepaid tax asset adjusted through accumulated deficit.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The guidance (Topic 825-10) primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
The implementation of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments (Topic 606) are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.
Variable consideration - HP estimates the transaction price for elements of consideration which are variable in nature.
Certain distributor programs and incentive offerings which were recorded at the date the sales incentives were offered, will now be recorded at the time of revenue recognition based on estimates.
HP will capitalize the eligible sales commission costs for contracts with terms of more than one year and will amortize these costs over the expected period of the benefit.
The adoption has led to certain balance sheet reclassifications pertaining to return asset and liability and repurchase reserves which impacts accounts receivable, net, inventory, other current assets and other accrued liabilities balances.
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
3.Determine the transaction price - Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which HP expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, HP estimates the amount it expects to be entitled to using either the expected value or most likely amount method.
HP reduces the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
5.Recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied - Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
HP generally invoices the customer upon delivery of the goods or services and the payments are due as per contract terms.
For fixed price support or maintenance contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.
HP records revenue on a gross basis when HP is a principal in the transaction and on a net basis when HP is acting as an agent between the customer and the vendor.
HP considers several factors to determine whether it is acting as a principal or an agent, most notably whether HP is the primary obligor to the customer, has established its own pricing and has inventory and credit risks.
HP transfers control of the products to the customer at the time the product is delivered to the customer and recognizes revenue accordingly, unless customer acceptance is uncertain or significant obligations to the customer remain unfulfilled.
HP recognizes revenue from fixed-price support, maintenance and other service contracts over time depicting the pattern of service delivery and recognizes the costs associated with these contracts as incurred.
Contract assets are rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that HP has transferred to a customer when such right is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
Such contract assets are insignificant to HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Contract liabilities are recorded as deferred revenues when amounts invoiced to customers are more than the revenues recognized or when payments are received in advance for fixed price support or maintenance contracts.
Incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract primarily consist of sales commissions.
HP has elected the practical expedient to expense as incurred the costs to obtain a contract with a benefit period equal to or less than one year.
These costs generate or enhance resources of HP that will be used in satisfying the performance obligation in the future and are capitalized and amortized over the expected period of the benefit, provided such costs are recoverable.
See Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information” for details on cost to obtain a contract and fulfillment cost, contract liabilities and value of remaining performance obligations.
In accordance with the modified retrospective method transition requirements, HP has presented the financial statement line items impacted and adjusted to compare to presentation under the prior GAAP for the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2019 and for Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings for three months and six months ended April 30, 2019.
In February 2018, the FASB issued guidance, which eliminates the stranded tax effects in other comprehensive income resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”).
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
The amendment improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better represent the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and made certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and will apply the modified retrospective transition option made available in July 2018 by the FASB, whereby comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Based on the current assessment, HP expects the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services.
HP sells to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise, public sector and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked and cloud-based environments.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, consuming multi-media for entertainment, personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content, staying informed and security.
• Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.
Printing provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices.
Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial and industrial markets.
Described below are HP’s global business capabilities within Printing.
•Office Printing Solutions delivers HP’s office printers, services and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises.
It also includes some Samsung-branded and OEM hardware and solutions.
Ongoing key initiatives include the shift to contractual through our Managed Print Service (“MPS”) and solutions offerings for the A3 copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Stitch, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
Ongoing key initiatives include accelerating transformation of industrial prints from analog to digital.
•3D Printing delivers the HP Multi-Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solution designed for prototyping and production of functional parts and functioning on an open platform facilitating the development of new 3D printing materials.
•Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from Ink and Laser cartridges to media, graphics supplies and 3D printing supplies, for recurring use in Consumer and Commercial Hardware.
Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
The accounting policies HP uses to derive segment results are substantially the same as those used by HP in preparing these financial statements.
HP derives the results of the business segments directly from its internal management reporting system.
HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments.
Pursuant to the adoption of ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP now reclassifies market-related retirement credits and all other components (excluding the service cost component) of net periodic benefit cost to Interest and other, net in Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.
HP reflected this change in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
This adoption did not have a material impact to previously reported segment earnings from operations.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment.
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which HP expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
 On May 26, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors approved amending the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
HP estimates that it will incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $700 million relating to labor and non-labor actions.
HP estimates that approximately half of the expected cumulative pre-tax costs will relate to severance and the remaining costs will relate to infrastructure, non-labor actions and other charges.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP incurred $6 million and $8 million of other charges, respectively.
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP incurred $11 million and $24 million of other charges, respectively.
HP’s policy is to fund its pension plans so that it makes at least the minimum contribution required by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
During fiscal year 2019, HP anticipates making contributions of approximately $46 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, approximately $32 million to its U.S. non-qualified plan participants and approximately $6 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, HP contributed $15 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $17 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants.
HP’s pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on various assumptions.
A deterioration in the funded status of a plan could result in a need for additional company contributions or an increase in net pension and post-retirement benefit costs in future periods.
Actuarial gains or losses are determined at the measurement date and amortized over the remaining service life for active plans or the life expectancy of plan participants for frozen plans.
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law.
Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118) in December 2017, which allows registrants to record provisional amounts during a one year “measurement period”.
As of January 31, 2019, HP had completed its accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional amounts recorded during the measurement period.
HP has elected to treat the Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period costs.
HP’s effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162)% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203)% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
These amounts included tax benefits of $42 million and $48 million related to one-time items for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $26 million related to restructuring charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
These benefits were partially offset by uncertain tax position charges of $12 million and $32 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively, and other charges of $4 million and $14 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, respectively.
The six months ended April 30, 2019 also included a tax benefit of $21 million related to final tax reform adjustments.
In addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded $20 million of excess tax benefits associated with stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As of April 30, 2018, HP had not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that were expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $33 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
As of April 30, 2019, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $7.8 billion, of which up to $1.5 billion would affect HP’s effective tax rate if and when realized.
There were no material changes to the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for the six months ended April 30, 2019.
As of April 30, 2019 and 2018, HP had accrued $193 million and $141 million, respectively, for interest and penalties.
HP expects to complete resolution of certain tax years with various tax authorities within the next 12 months.
HP believes it is reasonably possible that its existing gross unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by up to $6.4 billion within the next 12 months of which up to $706 million would affect HP’s effective tax rate if and when realized.
These financing arrangements, which in certain circumstances may contain partial recourse, result in a transfer of HP’s receivables and risk to the third party.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are de-recognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the recourse obligation is measured using market data from the similar transactions and reported as a current liability in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
The recourse obligations as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018 were not material.
The costs associated with the sales of trade receivables for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
As of April 30, 2019, the estimated value of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.4 billion.
HP expects to recognize approximately $1.8 billion of the unearned amount in next 12 months and $2.6 billion thereafter.
•the portion of the transaction price that is variable in nature is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation.
As of April 30, 2019, deferred contract fulfillment and acquisition costs balances were $40 million and $35 million, included in Other Current Assets and Other Non-Current Assets, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, the Company amortized $43 million of these costs.
As of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, HP’s contract liabilities balances were $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Non-Current Liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
HP uses valuation techniques that are based upon observable and unobservable inputs.
Observable inputs are developed using market data such as publicly available information and reflect the assumptions market participants would use, while unobservable inputs are developed using the best information available about the assumptions market participants would use.
Level 1—Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2—Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability and market-corroborated inputs.
Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to observable inputs and lowest priority to unobservable inputs.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the six months ended April 30, 2019.
All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition are considered cash equivalents.
As of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.
Equity securities in privately held companies are included in Other non-current assets on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
These amounted to $49 million and $36 million as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively.
As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, return on certain investment exposures.
HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items.
Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, HP categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
As a result of its use of derivative instruments, HP is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will fail to meet their contractual obligations.
Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP’s custodian to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
If HP’s or the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives’ net liability position.
The fair value of derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $56 million and $68 million as of April 30, 2019 and as of October 31, 2018, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days.
Under HP’s derivative contracts, the counterparty can terminate all outstanding trades following a covered change of control event affecting HP that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating.
This credit contingent provision did not affect HP’s financial position or cash flows as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, HP recognizes the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
HP uses forward contracts and at times, option contracts designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of revenue, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
However, hedges related to longer-term procurement arrangements extend several years and forward contracts associated with intercompany loans extend for the duration of the loan term, which typically range from two to five years.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency-denominated balance sheet exposures.
HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability.
For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.
Amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period they arise.
 As of April 30, 2019 and 2018, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges.
Hedge ineffectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges recognized in earnings were not material for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018.
Interest rate swaps agreements are designated as hedge relationships with gains or losses on the derivative recognized in interest and other financial charges offsetting the gains and losses on the underlying debt being hedged.
Gain on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings was $4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and $29 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Gain on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings was $16 million for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and loss of $11 million for the six months ended April 30, 2018.
Gains and losses are fully offset by changes in the fair value of the debt being hedged.
As of April 30, 2019, HP expects to reclassify an estimated accumulated other comprehensive gain of $141 million, net of taxes, to earnings within the next twelve months associated with cash flow hedges along with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions.
In December 2016, HP filed a shelf registration statement (the “2016 Shelf Registration Statement”) with the SEC to enable the company to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants.
As disclosed in Note 8, “Financial Instruments”, HP uses interest rate swaps to mitigate some of the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest expense.
Interest rates shown in the table of long-term debt have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps.
As of April 30, 2019, HP maintained two commercial paper programs.
HP’s U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion.
HP’s euro commercial paper program provides for the issuance of commercial paper outside of the United States denominated in U.S. dollars, euros or British pounds up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion or the equivalent in those alternative currencies.
The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed the $6.0 billion authorized by HP’s Board of Directors.
As of April 30, 2019, HP maintained a $4.0 billion, senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper or for general corporate purposes.
Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facility vary based on HP’s external credit ratings.
As of April 30, 2019, HP was in compliance with the financial covenants in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility.
As of April 30, 2019, HP and its subsidiaries had available borrowing resources of $730 million from uncommitted lines of credit in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facility discussed above.
HP’s share repurchase program authorizes both open market and private repurchase transactions.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP executed share repurchases of 34 million shares and 66 million shares and settled total shares for $0.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 35 million shares and 56 million shares and settled total shares for $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.
The shares repurchased during the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 were all open market repurchase transactions.
On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
HP calculates basic net EPS using net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted net EPS includes any dilutive effect of restricted stock units, stock options, performance-based awards and shares purchased under the 2011 employee stock purchase plan.
HP is involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including those identified below, consisting of IP, commercial, securities, employment, employee benefits and environmental matters that arise in the ordinary course of business.
HP reviews these matters at least quarterly and adjusts its accruals to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP shares responsibility with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain matters, as indicated below, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in whole or in part with respect to certain matters.
Based on its experience, HP believes that any damage amounts claimed in the specific matters discussed below are not a meaningful indicator of HP’s potential liability.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable.
However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it.
Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies.
Copyright Levies.
Proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving HP in certain European countries, including litigation in Belgium and other countries, seeking to impose or modify levies upon IT equipment (such as multifunction devices (“MFDs”) and PCs), alleging that these devices enable the production of private copies of copyrighted materials.
Some European countries that do not yet have levies on digital devices are expected to implement similar legislation to enable them to extend existing levy schemes, while other European countries have phased out levies or are expected to limit the scope of levy schemes and applicability in the digital hardware environment, particularly with respect to sales to business users.
HP, other companies and various industry associations have opposed the extension of levies to the digital environment and have advocated alternative models of compensation to rights holders.
In March 2010, HP filed a lawsuit against Reprobel in the Court of First Instance of Brussels seeking a declaratory judgment that no copyright levies are payable on sales of MFDs in Belgium or, alternatively, that payments already made by HP are sufficient to comply with its obligations.
On November 12, 2015, the CJEU published its judgment providing that a national legislation such as the Belgian one at issue in the main proceedings is incompatible with EU law on multiple legal points, as argued by HP, and returned the proceedings to the referring court.
Based on industry opposition to the extension of levies to digital products, HP’s assessments of the merits of various proceedings and HP’s estimates of the number of units impacted and the amounts of the levies, HP has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the ongoing disputes.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
Plaintiffs originally sought to certify a nationwide collective class action under the ADEA comprised of all U.S. residents employed by defendants who had their employment terminated pursuant to a workforce reduction (“WFR”) plan on or after May 23, 2012 and who were 40 years of age or older.
Plaintiffs also originally sought to represent a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years or older employed by defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after May 23, 2012.
Following a partial motion to dismiss, a motion to strike and a motion to compel arbitration that the defendants filed in November 2016, the plaintiffs amended their complaint.
The plaintiffs also agreed that the class period for the putative California state law class action should be shortened and now starts on August 18, 2012.
On January 30, 2017, the defendants filed another partial motion to dismiss and motions to compel arbitration as to several of the plaintiffs.
On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
The plaintiffs purport to bring the lawsuit on behalf of themselves and other similarly situated African-Americans and individuals over the age of forty.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants engaged in a pattern and practice of racial and age discrimination in lay-offs and promotions.
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on September 29, 2017.
The defendants also moved to dismiss the claims on various grounds and to strike certain aspects of the proposed class definition.
The Court dismissed the action on the basis of improper venue.
On July 23, 2018, the plaintiffs refiled the case in the Northern District of Georgia.
On August 9, 2018, the plaintiffs also filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal order with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings.
On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (the “DRI”) issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Limited (“HP India”), a subsidiary of HP, seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties.
Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.
On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million.
On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products-related show cause notice.
The differential duty demand is subject to interest.
On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
HP India filed appeals of the Commissioner’s orders before the Customs Tribunal along with applications for waiver of the pre-deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals.
The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal.
On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013.
The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order.
On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner’s orders.
The hearings scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015 and again on November 3, 2015 and April 11, 2016 were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal.
Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses.
As a result of the findings of an ongoing investigation, HP has provided information to the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC related to the accounting improprieties, disclosure failures and misrepresentations at Autonomy that occurred prior to and in connection with HP’s acquisition of Autonomy.
On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities.
On November 14, 2016, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Sushovan Hussain, the former CFO of Autonomy.
The indictment alleged that Mr. Hussain engaged in a scheme to defraud purchasers and sellers of securities of Autonomy and HP about the true performance of Autonomy’s business, its financial condition, and its prospects for growth.
A jury trial commenced on February 26, 2018.
On April 30, 2018, the jury found Mr. Hussain guilty of all charges against him.
On November 15, 2016, the SEC announced that Stouffer Egan, the former CEO of Autonomy’s U.S.-based operations, settled charges relating to his participation in an accounting scheme to meet internal sales targets and analyst revenue expectations.
HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
On October 1, 2015, Messrs. Lynch and Hussain filed their defenses.
Mr. Lynch also filed a counterclaim against Autonomy Corporation Limited seeking $160 million in damages, among other things, for alleged misstatements regarding Lynch.
The Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary claimants filed their replies to the defenses and the asserted counter-claim on March 11, 2016.
Trial began on March 25, 2019 and is scheduled to continue through the remainder of 2019.
HP’s operations and products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of HP’s products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of those products.
In particular, HP faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement operations as it adjusts to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of its products, their safe use, and the energy consumption associated with those products, including requirements relating to climate change.
HP is also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as “product take-back legislation”).
The amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict.
HP is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), known as “Superfund,” or state laws similar to CERCLA, and may become a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by private parties for contribution towards clean-up costs.
HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements.
Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects.
HP is indemnified in whole or in part by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities arising from the assets assigned to Hewlett Packard Enterprise and for certain environmental matters as detailed in the separation and distribution agreement.
In the ordinary course of business, HP may issue performance guarantees to certain of its clients, customers and other parties pursuant to which HP has guaranteed the performance obligations of third parties.
Some of those guarantees may be backed by standby letters of credit or surety bonds.
In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee.
HP believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote.
of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation.
For information on cross-indemnifications with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for litigation matters, see Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies.”
The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities.
In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
Some indemnifications may not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial.
HP records tax indemnification receivables from various third parties for certain tax liabilities that HP is jointly and severally liable for, but for which it is indemnified by those same third parties under existing legal agreements.
The net receivable as of April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018 were $0.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
HP accrues the estimated cost of product warranties at the time it recognizes revenue.
On November 1, 2018, HP completed the acquisition of the Apogee group.
This acquisition furthers HP’s plan to disrupt the A3 copier market and builds on its printing strategy to enhance its A3 and A4 product portfolio; build differentiated solutions and tools to expand its MPS; and invest in its direct and indirect go-to-market capabilities.
Apogee augments HP’s services portfolio in contractual office printing and MPS, where solutions are increasingly important for SMBs.
HP reports the financial results of the above business in the Printing segment.
The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2018 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the fair values of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, the valuation of intangible assets acquired and residual goodwill.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.
During the six months ended April 30, 2019, the increase in gross intangible assets was primarily due to intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of the Apogee group, which are based on preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
We may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate.
We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges.
•Component shortages.
•Excess supply.
In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors.
In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components.
The practice employed by our PC business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks.
In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.
We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers.
manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.
We work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way.
Brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier’s improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, General Specification for the Environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for HP brand paper and product packaging) and GHG emissions, water and waste data.
•Single-source suppliers.
For example, we rely on Canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges.
We also rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs and workstations, and we rely on AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products.
For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from Canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements.
•fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments.
The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States.
Although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies.
