The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Opterna International Corp. We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million.During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.