CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 13 for additional information on discontinued operations.
Effective October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
This note reflects the accounting policy change for revenue starting on the date of adoption.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services.
third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company's central operations.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Current contract assets were $646 thousand and $1.2 million as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The current portion is recorded in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
There were no non-current contract assets as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018.
Contract assets that became unconditional during the period ended December 31, 2018 and reclassified as a receivable were $918 thousand.
Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer.
Current contract liabilities were $738 thousand and $1.1 million as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The current portion is recorded in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets.
There were no non-current contract liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that was included in contract liabilities as of the beginning of the period was $1.6 million.
These costs are only capitalized if the contract is obtained.
Incremental costs are related to commissions in the TS portion of the business.
Current capitalized contract costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets for the periods ended December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
There are no non-current capitalized costs on the consolidated balance sheets.
There was no impairment related to incremental costs capitalized.
Current capitalized fulfillment costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
The portion of current capitalized costs was $59 thousand and $56 thousand as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There are no non-current capitalized fulfillment costs on the consolidated balance sheets.
There was no impairment related to fulfillment costs capitalized.
Projects are typically billed upon completion or at certain milestones.
Product and services are typically billed when shipped or as services are being performed.
Payment terms are typically 30 days to pay in full except in Europe where it could be up to 90 days.
Most of the Company’s contracts are less than one year.
The Company elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that have an original expected duration of one year or less.
This is due to a low amount of performance obligations less than one year being unsatisfied at each period end.
Most of these contracts are related to product sales.
The Company has certain contracts that have an original term of more than one year.
The royalty agreement is longer than one year and managed service contracts are longer than one year.
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.4 million and $3.3 million as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The U.K. did not have any tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the utilization of a portion of its net tax operating loss.
The Company's continuing operations has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the U.K. and in the U.S.
The Company's discontinued operations had a defined benefit and defined contribution plan in Germany, which was assumed by Reply AG in its acquisition of the Company's operations in Germany (see Note 13 below).
In the U.K., the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the
plan.
The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
The Company's pension plan in the U.K. is the only plan with plan assets.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The following tables present certain operating segment information for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and 2017.
Accounts receivable from Customer A was less than 10% of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
December 31, 2018, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $2.0 million, or 12%, and approximately $0.2 million, or 2%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
On December 27, 2018, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on January 22, 2019 to shareholders of record as of January 7, 2019, the record date.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied.
The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
The ASU replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
The new standard was adopted by the Company effective October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach only to contracts that were not completed as of adoption date.
The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initial application as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
There were no previous period financial statement adjustments.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions.
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Under this ASU companies will no longer be required to value non-employee awards differently from employee awards, but the accounting remains different for attribution and a contractual term election for valuing nonemployee equity share options.
Equity-classified awards to nonemployees will now be measured at the grant date using fair value of the equity instruments the company is obligated to issue and recognition is associated with the probable outcome.
Existing disclosure requirements within the stock compensation guidance also apply to nonemployee awards.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2018-14, Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Under this ASU existing disclosures not considered cost beneficial are removed, disclosures identified as relevant are added, and there is added clarification regarding specific existing disclosures.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-14 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
On July 31, 2018, CSPi LTD, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of all of the outstanding stock of Modcomp GmbH, to Reply AG, an affiliate of Reply SpA, a holding company for a worldwide group of companies, pursuant to the terms of a Share Purchase and Assignment Agreement dated June 27, 2018.
Upon the closing of the Share Purchase Agreement, Reply AG paid to CSPI total cash at closing of approximately $14.4 million, which consisted of the original purchase price of $11.7 million plus an adjustment at closing for Net Cash (as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement) of approximately $2.7 million.
Accordingly, CSPi determined that the assets and liabilities of this reportable segment met the discontinued operations criteria in U.S. GAAP in the year ended September 30, 2018.
The gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
The following table summarizes the results of discontinued operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017.
