Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and should be read in conjunction with the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results. You should read this information in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed  Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Part II, Item 8, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our Company





Key Developments



Flash Ventures



The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand. The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand. As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined.



Through our strategic partnership with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) referred to as “Flash Ventures”, we and TMC operate flash-based memory wafer manufacturing facilities in Yokkaichi, Japan. We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures’ investments to the extent that Flash Ventures’ operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.



In response to the current flash business conditions, we expect to reduce wafer starts and delay deployment of capital equipment for flash production. We expect these actions to reduce our planned flash output by approximately 10% to 15% for calendar year 2019. The goal of these actions is to bring our supply more in line with the demand environment, with the majority of the supply reduction occurring by the middle of calendar year 2019. We do not expect this action to result in any incremental cash payments; however, we expect the temporary abnormal reduction in output to result in flash manufacturing underutilization charges to be recorded in cost of sales in the range of $250 million to $300 million spread over the remainder of fiscal 2019. We may adjust our plans based on market conditions, which could impact the timing and amount of any charges.



Results of Operations



First Quarter Overview















Net Revenue and Gross Margin



Net Revenue. The decrease in net revenue in the three months ended September 28, 2018 from the comparable period of the prior year was primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products. Client Devices revenue decreased 1.0% year over year, primarily driven by a reduction in client compute HDD sales, lower average selling prices for flash-based products and lower gaming sales. These factors were largely offset by higher demand for mobility and surveillance products. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions increased 5.6% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in sales from our capacity enterprise HDD, partially offset by our lower sales of eSSDs and performance enterprise HDDs. Client Solutions revenue decreased 18.0% year over year, primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products. 



Changes in the net revenue by geography generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. 



For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, two customers accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenue. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, our top 10 customers accounted for 48% and 42% of our net revenue, respectively.



Consistent with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For each of the three-month periods ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, these programs represented 12% of gross revenues. The amounts attributed to our sales incentive and marketing programs generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, list pricing strategies, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of products. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to adjust our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue.



Gross Profit and Gross Margin. The decrease in gross profit in the three months ended September 28, 2018 from the comparable period in the prior year was primarily due to the lower average selling prices for flash products. This was partially offset by improvements in our production costs from technology transitions and lower costs for amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $247 million, or 4.9%, of revenue, in the three months ended September 28, 2018, compared to $279 million, or 5.4%, of revenue, in the three months ended September 29, 2017.



Operating Expenses







Employee termination, asset impairment and other charges primarily related to further actions associated with the realignment of our business. For additional information regarding employee termination, asset impairment and other charges, see Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Employee Termination, Asset Impairment and Other Charges, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Interest and Other Income (Expense) 



The decrease in total interest and other expense, net is primarily due to lower interest expense resulting from reductions in the principal amount of debt and lower interest rates as a result of changes to our debt facilities in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018, partially offset by increases in the LIBOR interest rate.



Income Tax Expense







On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”) was enacted, which includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign earnings. 



Consistent with applicable Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) guidance, we made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax required by the 2017 Act. For other elements of tax expense noted in Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q, or where we have not made an election, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for such items based on the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to the 2017 Act. As we finalize the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act during the one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance, we expect to reflect adjustments to the recorded provisional amounts and record additional tax effects of the 2017 Act.



The primary driver of the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 21% is the discrete effect of the provisional income tax benefit of $52 million related to the decision to utilize our 2018 operating loss to partially offset the mandatory deemed repatriation tax.



The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 29, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% are windfall benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards, the generation of tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.



Our future effective tax rate is subject to future regulatory developments, changes in the mix of our U.S. earnings compared to foreign earnings, updates to our assertion as to whether the remaining portion of our foreign undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested and other calculations under the 2017 Act. Our total tax expense in future fiscal years may also vary as a result of discrete items such as excess tax benefits or deficiencies.



For additional information regarding income tax expense (benefit), see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Liquidity and Capital Resources







We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations as well as our available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt, stock repurchases, dividend and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



During fiscal 2019, we expect cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and net activity in notes receivable and equity investments relating to our Flash Ventures joint venture with Toshiba Memory Corporation to be approximately $1.50 billion to $1.90 billion. The total expected cash to be used could vary depending on the timing and completion of various capital projects and the availability, timing and terms of related financing.



Pursuant to the 2017 Act, we are required to pay a one-time deemed repatriation tax related to the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. As of September 28, 2018, the provisional amount of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability was $1.26 billion, which is payable over an 8-year period as further discussed below under “Short and Long-term Liquidity-Contractual Obligations and Commitments.” The provisional amount included in the Consolidated Financial Statements may change when we finalize the calculation of our post-1986 foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income taxes and the amount of foreign earnings held in cash or other specified assets. For additional information regarding our total tax liability for the mandatory repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



A total of $3.36 billion and $4.15 billion of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, respectively. Although the mandatory deemed repatriation tax has removed U.S. federal taxes on distributions to the U.S., we continue to evaluate the expected manner of recovery to determine whether or not to continue to assert indefinite reinvestment on a part or all the foreign undistributed earnings. This requires us to re-evaluate the existing short and long-term capital allocation policies in light of the 2017 Act and calculate the tax cost that is incremental to the U.S. deemed repatriation tax (e.g., foreign withholding, state income taxes, and additional U.S. tax on currency transaction gains or losses) of repatriating cash to the U.S. For the three months ended September 28, 2018, we made the decision to no longer continue to assert indefinite reinvestment on a portion of our foreign undistributed earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions and have included a provisional income tax expense of $26 million related to state income taxes, partially offset by a decrease to our valuation allowance of $17 million. Amounts related to foreign withholding taxes were not material. We continue to evaluate whether or not to assert indefinite reinvestment on our remaining foreign undistributed earnings. In the event we determine not to continue to assert the permanent reinvestment of part or all of our remaining foreign undistributed earnings, such a determination could result in the accrual and payment of additional federal, foreign, state and local taxes. For additional information regarding our indefinite reinvestment assertion, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Operating Activities







Changes in days sales outstanding (“DSOs”) are generally due to the linearity of shipments. Changes in days in inventory (“DIOs”) are generally related to the timing of inventory builds. Changes in days payables outstanding (“DPOs”) are generally related to production volume and the timing of purchases during the period. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the payment term modifications through negotiations with our vendors or by granting to, or receiving from, our vendors’ payment term accommodations.



For the three months ended September 28, 2018, DSO increased by 3 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting the timing of shipments and customer receipts. DIO increased by 20 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting increases in hard drive inventory to re-establish capacity enterprise to normal levels and, to a lesser extent, increases in flash inventory. DPO remained consistent with the prior year.



Investing Activities



During the three months ended September 28, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $277 million of capital expenditures and a net $29 million decrease in notes receivable issuances to Flash Ventures to fund its capital expansion. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended September 29, 2017 primarily consisted of $160 million of capital expenditures, a $131 million net increase in notes receivable issuances to and investments in Flash Ventures and $93 million for acquisitions.



Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities as well as bank certificates of deposit. In addition, we invest directly in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. and International Government agency securities, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and corporate and municipal notes and bonds.



Financing Activities



During the three months ended September 28, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $148 million to pay dividends on our common stock, $563 million of share repurchases, $66 million for taxes paid on vested stock awards under employee stock plans and $38 million for repayment of debt. Net cash used in financing activities for the during the three months ended September 29, 2017 primarily consisted of $147 million to pay dividends on our common stock, $62 million to repay debt, and a net $41 million used for employee stock plans, partially offset by proceeds of $26 million from the settlement of debt hedge contracts.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



Other than the commitments related to Flash Ventures, facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see “Short and Long-term Liquidity-Contractual Obligations and Commitments” below), we do not have any other material off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any other obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose entities. For additional information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Short and Long-term Liquidity



Contractual Obligations and Commitments 











Debt



See Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended June 29, 2018 for information regarding our indebtedness, including information about new borrowings and repayments, increased availability under our revolving credit facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness.



Flash Ventures



Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which we guarantee half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including us. As of September 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under these Japanese lease facilities. See Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for information regarding Flash Ventures.



Purchase Obligations



In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In addition, we have entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, containing minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre-defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in “Purchase obligations” in the table above. We have also entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendor’s components. These arrangements are included under “Purchase obligations” in the table above.



Mandatory Repatriation Tax







The 2017 Act allows for the provisional mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.26 billion to be payable over an 8-year period without interest. The payments are due with 8% of the tax to be paid in each of the first five years, 15% in the 6th year, 20% in the 7th year, and 25% in the 8th year. As of September 28, 2018, total payments of $150 million have been made towards the provisional mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.26 billion for a remaining net tax liability owed of $1.11 billion. For additional information regarding our provisional estimate of the total tax liability for the mandatory repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Unrecognized Tax Benefits 



As of September 28, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $557 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of September 28, 2018 was approximately $112 million. Of these amounts, approximately $553 million could result in potential cash payments. We are not able to provide a reasonable estimate of the timing of future tax payments related to these obligations. For additional information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Interest Rate Swap



We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates underlying our variable rate debt. For a description of our current interest rate swaps, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Foreign Exchange Contracts



We purchase foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. For a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements, products or services to be provided by us, environmental compliance or from IP infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances.



It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements.



Stock Repurchase Program



Our Board of Directors previously authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of our common stock. During the three months ended September 28, 2018, we repurchased 0.8 million shares for a total cost of $61 million under this previous authorization. On July 25, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.00 billion share repurchase program that is effective through July 25, 2023, replacing all prior programs. Subsequent to July 25, 2018 and through September 28, 2018, we repurchased an additional 7.6 million shares for a total cost of $502 million under this new program. Therefore, the Company’s stock repurchases under all stock repurchase authorizations in effect for the three months ended September 28, 2018 totaled $563 million. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our stock repurchase program as of September 28, 2018 was $4.50 billion. Repurchases under the stock repurchase program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. 



Cash Dividend



Since the first quarter of 2013, we have issued a quarterly cash dividend. On July 16, 2018, we paid $148 million for a dividend declared in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. On August 1, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of our common stock to our shareholders of record as of September 28, 2018, which aggregated $145 million and was paid on October 15, 2018. We may modify, suspend, or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



For a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and expected effects on our results of operations and financial condition, see Part I, Item 1, Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



We have prepared the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.



See Part I, Item 1, Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 3, Revenues, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for a discussion of a recently adopted accounting pronouncement that affects our recognition of revenue. There have been no other material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. Please refer to Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018 for a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities









