Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk

Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies.
We purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies.
The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations.
The contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months.
We do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes.
For additional information, see Part I, Item 1, Note 4, Fair Value Measurements and Investments and Note 5, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
As of December 29, 2017, we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table.
The designated foreign exchange contracts are entered to protect the U.S. dollar value of our product cost and operating expenses.
Changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts would be largely offset in other income (expense) by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
During the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Disclosure About Other Market Risks

Variable Interest Rate Risk

Borrowings under our Term Loan A and our revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin of 1.75% or at a base rate plus an applicable margin of 0.75% (3.32% as of December 29, 2017).
The applicable margin for the borrowings under our Term Loan A and our revolving credit facility will range, depending on our leverage, from 1.50% to 2.25% for LIBOR loans and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate loans.
Borrowings under the U.S.
Term Loan B-3 tranche bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of an adjusted LIBOR, subject to a 0.00% floor, plus 2.00% or a base rate plus 1.00% (3.57% as of December 29, 2017).
We have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt.
At December 29, 2017, 57% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates.
To balance the portfolio, we entered into a pay-fixed interest rate swap on $1.00 billion notional amount, which effectively converts a portion of our term loan to fixed rates through May 2020.
As of December 29, 2017, we had $6.98 billion of variable rate debt.
After giving effect to the $1.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $5.98 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest, subject to each loan’s specific floor, would increase annual interest expense by $60 million.
For additional information regarding our term loans and our interest rate swaps, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None.
