Part II—OTHER INFORMATION  



Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



From time-to-time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints. We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors  



Except as noted below, there are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside North America and, as a result, we face diverse risks related to engaging in international business.  



We have offices in seven foreign countries and we are dedicating a significant portion of our sales efforts in countries outside North America. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. In 2017 and 2016, approximately 56.9% and 58.3%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from operations outside the U.S. In the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, 55.4% and 55.7%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from operations outside of the U.S. and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. This future international revenue will depend on the continued use and expansion of our type and technologies, including the licensing of our solutions worldwide.  





   •   our ability to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent that the United States does, which increases the risk of unauthorized and uncompensated use of our type or technologies;  



   •   United States and foreign government trade or tariff restrictions, including those that may impose restrictions on importation of programming, technology or components to or from the United States;  



   •   foreign government taxes, regulations and permit requirements, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the United States;  



   •   risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Japanese yen, the European Union’s euro, and the United Kingdom’s pound sterling, including risks related to hedging activities we may undertake;  



   •   foreign labor laws, regulations and restrictions;  



   •   changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union, as well as related events;  



   •   difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;  





   •   the strength of international economies, including consideration of high inflation rates.  





Table of Contents 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  





None.  





Not applicable.  







Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. Purchases of Equity Securities  





 (1) The Company repurchased unvested restricted stock in accordance with either the Third Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (“2007 Award Plan”), or the 2010 Inducement Plan. The price paid by the Company was determined pursuant to the terms of either the 2007 Award Plan or the 2010 Inducement Plan and related restricted stock agreements.  



 (2) The Company withheld 1,500 shares and 12,401 shares of vested restricted stock to satisfy the payment of taxes associated with the awards’ vestings in April and June, respectively.  



 (3) The Company purchased shares of common stock in accordance with its share repurchase program announced on May 3, 2018. The Company purchased the shares on the open market at prevailing prices.  



Subsequent to June 30, 2018, the Company purchased 44,600 shares of common stock for $0.9 million, at an average price per share of $20.77 through July 23, 2018. The Company purchased these shares on the open market at prevailing market prices and in accordance with its previously announced share purchase program. At July 23, 2018, $23.1 million remains for future purchase under the share purchase program.  



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.  



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not applicable.  



Item 5. Other Information  



None.  



Item 6. Exhibits  



The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and such Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.  





Table of Contents 



EXHIBIT INDEX  



Listed and indexed below are all exhibits filed as part of this report.  







Filed herewith.  





Furnished herewith.  





Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





