Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  



We are exposed to financial market risk, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk.  



Concentration of Revenue and Credit Risk   



Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash equivalents consist primarily of bank deposits. Deposits of cash held outside the United States totaled approximately $19.1 million and $21.1 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  



We grant credit to customers in the ordinary course of business. Credit evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis to reduce credit risk, and no collateral is required from our customers. An allowance for uncollectible accounts is provided for those accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible based upon historical experience and credit evaluation. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, one customer individually accounted for 12.5% and 10.8% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively. Due to the nature of our quarterly revenue streams derived from royalty revenue, it is not unusual for our accounts receivable balances to include a few customers with large balances. Historically, we have not recorded material losses due to customers’ nonpayment. Our Creative Professional business consists of a higher volume of lower dollar value transactions. Accordingly, as the percent of Creative Professional revenue increases in relation to total revenue, we expect the average time to collect our accounts receivables, and our overall accounts receivables balances, to increase.  



One customer accounted for 14.9% of total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 or for the six months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.  



Interest Rate Risk  



Our exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to our long-term debt. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had borrowings under our revolving Credit Facility of $65.0 million and $75.0 million, respectively. The interest rate on our Credit Facility fluctuates with either the prime rate or the LIBOR interest rate and at June 30, 2019, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.3% for LIBOR. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, a 10% increase in the rate would have increased our annual interest expense by $0.2 million.  



Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  



In accordance with ASC Topic No. 830, 



Foreign Currency Matters, or ASC 830, all assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate as of the balance sheet date or historical rates, as appropriate. Revenue and expenses of these subsidiaries are translated at the average monthly exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments as calculated from the translation of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. dollars are recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income. 





non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expenses to U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expenses does not change from current levels.    





Table of Contents  



We incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to certain customers that are invoiced in U.S. dollars, but who have the option to make an equivalent payment in their own functional currencies at a specified exchange rate as of a specified date. In the period from that date until payment in the customer’s functional currency is received and converted into U.S. dollars, we can incur realized gains and losses. We also incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses on certain intercompany assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We are currently utilizing 



30-day forward contracts to mitigate our exposure on these currency fluctuations. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts is offset by the change in the value of the hedged assets of our consolidated foreign affiliate. At June 30, 2019, we had one 



30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pound sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. At December 31, 2018, we had one 



30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pound sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. 



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.  



