Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY – (Continued)  









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  





1. Nature of the Business  



Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “we”) is a leading global provider of branded and design assets, technology and expertise for creative professionals and consumer device manufacturers. We provide high-quality creative assets and technology solutions across multiple devices and mediums. Our solutions, which include type, visual content marketing solutions, custom design services, and tools and technologies that enable the creative process are licensed through our direct sales channel, 



e-commerce platforms and partner platforms. We also provide consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors, or ISVs, with the right solutions for delivering consistent, compelling user experiences. Our solutions power the visual expression of the leading makers of a wide range of devices, including laser printers, digital copiers and mobile devices, among others, as well as provide a high-quality text experience in numerous software applications and operating systems. We license our design assets and technology to creative professionals, consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors. 



We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and we operate in 





 2019, we conduct our operations through 



four domestic operating subsidiaries, Monotype Imaging Inc., Monotype ITC Inc. (“ITC”), MyFonts Inc. (“MyFonts”) and Olapic, Inc., and 



six foreign operating subsidiaries, Olapic Argentina S.A., Monotype Ltd. (“Monotype UK”), Monotype GmbH (“Monotype Germany”), Monotype Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. (“Monotype India”), Monotype Hong Kong Ltd. (“Monotype Hong Kong”) and Monotype KK (“Monotype Japan”).    



2. Basis of Presentation 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements as of June 30, 2019 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial reporting and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for Quarterly Reports on 



Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation 



S-X. Accordingly, such financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the year or for any future periods. In management’s opinion, these unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements for the interim periods presented. 



We have elected to present the analysis of changes in stockholders’ equity quarterly in statement form for the current and comparative quarter to date and year to date interim periods and state the amount of dividends per share in the aggregate for each class of shares in accordance with the provisions in Regulation S-X, Rule 8-03(a)(5) and 10-01(a)(7). 



These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, as reported in the Company’s Annual Report on 



Form 10-K. The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below. 



Statement of Operations  



We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations. All other revenue is classified as license revenue.   



3. Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



Adopted  



Leases  



In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 





Leases (Topic





Amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, (“ASU 



2016-02”) which replaces the existing guidance for leases. ASU 



2016-02 requires the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees. In general, for lease arrangements exceeding a twelve-month term, these arrangements must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee. Under ASU  







2016-02 must be calculated using the applicable incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. 



We adopted ASU 



2016-02 on January 1, 2019. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things allows us to carryforward the historical lease classification. We also elected the practical expedient that allows an accounting policy election to exclude right of use assets and lease obligations from the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term of 12 months or less. 



As permitted in the standard, the Company is using a modified retrospective approach, where current periods are shown under the new standard, while comparative periods are shown under Accounting Standard Codification No. 840, Leases (prior to the adoption of ASU 



2016-02), where entities recognize a cumulative effect to retained earnings at the date of adoption without restating prior periods’ balances or disclosures. 



The adoption of ASU 



2016-02 on January 1, 2019, had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet, but did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. The most significant impact of the adoption of ASU 



2016-02 was the recognition of additional 



right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases. At adoption, the Company recognized 



right-of-use assets of approximately $14.4 million and total lease liabilities of $15.9 million. 



Derivatives  



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 







2017-12 on January 1, 2019 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



Comprehensive Income  



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 







Other Comprehensive Income. This guidance allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“The Act”). The new standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted this pronouncement on January 1, 2019 and elected to not reclassify the stranded federal corporate tax rate effects to retained earnings, which amount to approximately $0.6 million. 



Pending  



Internal Use Software  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 





Intangibles



 – Goodwill and Other – 



Internal-Use Software (Topic 







. This update clarifies the accounting for implementation costs related to a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract previously defined in ASU 



2015-05. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 



2018-15; however, we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



Defined Benefit Pension Plan  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 









. This guidance eliminates requirements for certain disclosures and requires certain additional disclosures concerning the company’s defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 



2018-14; however, we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  



Fair Value Measurement  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 





Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, (“ASU 



2018-13”). This guidance is designed to improve the effectiveness of the disclosure. The new standard is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 



2018-13; however, we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



Goodwill  



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 







2017-04; however, we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



Financial Instruments – Credit Losses  



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 







, which requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The new standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 





 however, we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   





We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service. The amount of revenue recognized reflects consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services, and excludes any sales incentives and taxes collected from customers, that are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.  





Creative Professional Revenue  



Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, custom font design services, our web font and digital ad related services (which includes our web font services and web design tools), and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings. We license fonts directly to 



end-users through our direct sales organization, 



e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers. Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations. 



Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer. Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer. In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work. In these cases the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.  



For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer. Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception. An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient. The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing. We have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component; however, the Company will continue to assess (1) the length of time between when the goods or services are delivered and expected payment, and (2) prevailing interest rates in the market to 



re-evaluate this conclusion.  



OEM Revenue  



Our OEM revenue is derived substantially from printer imaging, printer driver and display imaging products and primarily relates to licenses providing our customers the right to embed our fonts and technology in their products over a certain term. Under our OEM licensing arrangements, we either receive a fixed fee as specified under the license arrangement or a royalty for each product unit incorporating our fonts and technology that is shipped by our OEM customers. Although significantly less than royalties from per-unit shipments and fixed fees from OEM customers, we also receive revenue from software application and operating systems vendors, who include our fonts and technology in their products and for font development. Revenue from per-unit royalty contracts is estimated and recognized in the period that the royalty-bearing event or sale by our OEM customer occurs. Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the 



customer. Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period. Many of our 



per-unit



 royalty licenses continue for the duration that our OEM customers ship products that include our technology, unless terminated for breach. Other licenses have terms that typically range from one fiscal quarter to five years, and usually provide for automatic or optional renewals. 



Disaggregated Revenue   









Significant Judgments  



Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any. We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method. The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.  



Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.  



With the exception of OEM royalty licenses, our contracts do not generally include a variable component to the transaction price. If royalties are not yet reported to us for the period in which the subsequent sale is expected to occur, we are required to   



estimate such royalties. When a new contract is signed for the licensing of IP on a 



per-unit



 basis, we deliver the licenses and based on ongoing discussions with the customer, we will estimate when the distribution will begin and estimate royalties based on distribution forecasts provided by the customer. For ongoing arrangements, we have developed a process to estimate 



per-unit





per-unit



 royalties was 







 million for the



three



 months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component. We have elected the practical expedient which permits an entity to not adjust for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect that at the contract inception, the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment. We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.  



Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance Obligations  







Contract Balances  



Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. We record an unbilled receivable, or contract asset, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing and when we have an enforceable right to payment. When invoicing occurs prior to revenue recognition, we have unearned revenue, or contract liabilities, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “deferred revenue” within deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities, as appropriate at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. When invoicing occurs after revenue recognition, we have earned revenue, or contract assets, presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as “unbilled receivables” within accounts receivable and other assets, as appropriate at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.  



Revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period were approximately $3.7 million and $7.6 million, respectively. Revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period were approximately $9.4 million and $14.4 million, respectively. Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, was $5.5 million. Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, was $4.6 million. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in contract assets reclassified to receivables as a result of the right to the transaction consideration becoming unconditional was not material. The contract modifications entered into during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s contract assets or deferred revenue.  



Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract  



We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. We have determined that certain commissions paid under our sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of June 30, 2019 was $4.2 million, all of which was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Costs to obtain a contract are   



amortized as sales and marketing expense over the expected period of benefit in a manner that is consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to which the asset relates. The judgments made in determining the amount of costs incurred include whether the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract and the estimate of the amortization period, which ranges between three and ten years depending on the nature of the performance obligations within the contract. These costs are periodically reviewed for impairment; however, no impairment existed as of June 30, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018. The amount of capitalized costs related to contracts which were terminated on or before June 30, 2019, due to the customer exercising an opt-out clause or the cancellation of an anticipated renewal was not material and was charged to operating expenses in the first half of 2019.  



We have elected to apply the practical expedient and recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. 



We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract. Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties. These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution. Accordingly, there were no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of June 30, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.  





Cash and cash equivalents that are restricted as to withdrawal or use under the terms of contractual agreements are classified on our balance sheet based on relevant restrictions. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $6.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively, of cash held in escrow to be used for payments due in 2019 in connection with the Olapic, Inc. acquisition.   







6. Fair Value Measurements  









Table of Contents  





The Company’s recurring fair value measures relate to short-term investments, which are classified as cash equivalents, derivative instruments and from 



time-to-time as contingent consideration. The fair value of our cash equivalents are either based on quoted prices (unadjusted) for similar assets or other observable inputs such as yield curves at commonly quoted intervals and other market corroborated inputs. The fair value of our derivatives is based on quoted market prices from various banking institutions or an independent third-party provider for similar instruments. In determining the fair value, we consider our 



non-performance risk and that of our counterparties. At June 30, 2019, we had one 



30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. At December 31, 2018, we had one 



30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value. 



The Company’s 



non-financial assets and 



non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.  











We have operating leases for corporate offices and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 6 years, some of which contain options to extend the leases for up to 5 years and some which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We have lease agreements with lease and 



non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.



We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in the operating lease 



right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and the short-term and long-term lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 



Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement for the Company’s NY office, the Company obtained a standby 



letter-of-credit in the amount of approximately $0.5 million as security on the lease obligation. The 



letter-of credit is a reduction of the available borrowings under the Credit facility.















As of June 30, 2019, we have additional operating leases, primarily for corporate offices, that have not yet commenced of $2.1 million. These operating leases will commence in 2019 with lease terms of 1 to 

















On March 22, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary, Monotype Imaging Inc., (“the Borrower”), any financial institution that becomes a Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent. Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $300.0 million. The Credit Facility provides more flexibility in addition to an increased borrowing capacity and extended terms, as defined above. The New Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s existing $150.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Original Credit Agreement”) by and between the Company and Silicon Valley Bank. The Original Credit Agreement was terminated effective March 22, 2019 and was scheduled to expire on September 15, 2020. The Company had $75.0 million outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement at December 31, 2018. Available borrowings under the Original Credit Agreement were reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $74.5 million available for borrowings at December 31, 2018. At June 30, 2019, the Company had $65.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. Available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $134.5 million available for borrowings at June 30, 2019. 



Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest through March 21, 2024 at a variable rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus between 1.0% and 1.625%, or at the Borrower’s option, the higher of (i) the prime rate as announced by Bank of America and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, between 0.0% and 0.625%, with the exact interest rate margin determined based on the consolidated leverage ratio. At June 30, 2019, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.3% for LIBOR. At December 31, 2018, our rate under the Original Credit Agreement, inclusive of applicable margins, was 4.3% for LIBOR. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee, based on the consolidated leverage ratio, equal to 0.175%, 0.20%, 0.225% or 0.25% per annum on the undrawn portion available under the revolving credit facility and variable per annum fees in respect of outstanding letters of credit. In connection with the New Credit Agreement, the Company incurred closing and legal fees of approximately $1.0 million, which have been accounted for as deferred financing costs, that, together with approximately $0.3 million of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with loan syndicate lenders who participated in the new facility, will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the New Credit Agreement. In addition, $34 thousand of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the 



pro-rata share of prior loan syndicate lenders that did not participate in the new facility were written off and charged to other expense in the first quarter of 2019.



The New Credit Agreement includes financial covenants which require the Company to maintain 





non-operating costs and other expenses or losses minus cash 



non-operating gains and other 



non-cash gains; provided, however that the aggregate of all cash 



non-operating expense shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated EBITDA. The New Credit Agreement also provides for a number of customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control and judgment defaults. Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. The obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain subsidiaries and secured by a lien on substantially all of the present and future property and assets of the Company and such subsidiaries, in each case, subject to limited exceptions and exclusions. 









As of June 30, 2019, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $4.0 million, all of which is recorded as a reduction of deferred tax assets.  



11. Net Income (Loss) Per Share  



For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 and the six months ended June 30, 2019, the two class method was used in the computation as it was the more dilutive of the two approaches. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, earnings were not allocated to participating securities in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as there were net losses and the net loss available to common shareholders was divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate diluted earnings per share. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the assumed exercise of stock options and assumed vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units were not included in the computation of net income (loss) per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.   





Table of Contents  









Table of Contents  









Share repurchases



On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a share purchase program permitting repurchases of up to $25.0 million of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock through 





Stock Based Compensation  



We account for stock based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic No. 718, 







As of June 30, 2019, the Company had $24.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors’ unvested stock awards and stock units that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years.  









Geographic segment information  



We market our products and services principally through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, China, Republic of Korea and Japan. We report revenue based on the geographic location of our customers. For example, licenses may be sold to large international companies, which may be headquartered in the Republic of Korea, such revenues would be included in the revenue for Rest of World.   









Table of Contents  







In December 2017, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to accelerate the integration of the Olapic business into the core of Monotype in an effort to improve operational efficiencies and to align its investment in the Olapic business to better support it over time. The plan provided for the elimination of 89 positions worldwide. As part of this plan, the Company recorded charges of approximately $3.0 million for severance and termination benefits and $0.2 million of facilities and associated costs. This restructuring was completed in the third quarter of 2018. 







, the Company implemented a restructuring plan, under which the Company reduced headcount in certain areas of the Company, made the decision to cease sales and marketing of the Swyft product and service line and to close a regional office, all in an effort to improve operational efficiencies. The plan provided for the elimination of approximately 50



 positions worldwide across a variety of functions, with a concentration within engineering, as well as sales and marketing. The Company recorded net charges totaling $6.8



 million related to severance and termination benefits, net of stock based compensation reversal, the write off of goodwill and intangible assets attributable to Swyft, the acceleration of the final deferred compensation payment to the founders of Swyft, and charges associated with the office closure. We reversed $1.4



 million of stock based compensation expense as a result of forfeitures of awards by employees included in the restructuring plan. In the six months ended June 30





, the severance and termination accrual was reduced based on the completion of certain final termination agreements. This restructuring plan was completed by December 31





, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees. 



The Company continued to refine its cost structure, and in December 2018, implemented a restructuring plan in an effort to improve operational efficiencies. The plan provided for the elimination of 15 positions worldwide, including the positions held by 



two of the Olapic founders. To date, the Company recorded charges of approximately $1.0 million for severance and termination benefits associated with this plan and $0.9 million of accelerated expense associated with the final deferred compensation payment in connection with the departure of those founders. In addition, $0.9 million was recorded for additional stock based compensation expense associated with the acceleration of the vesting of those departing founders’ equity grants in accordance with the separation agreements. This restructuring plan was completed in the second quarter of 2019, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.   









Table of Contents  









Future cash expenditures related to the restructuring are expected to be approximately $0.4 million, net of tax savings. 



15. Commitments and Contingencies 



Legal Proceedings  



From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints. We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 



Licensing Warranty  



Under our standard license agreement with OEM customers, we warrant that the licensed technologies are free of infringement claims of intellectual property rights and will meet the specifications as defined in the licensing agreement for a one-year period. Under the licensing agreements, liability for such indemnity obligations is limited, generally to the total arrangement fee; however, exceptions have been made on a case-by-case basis, increasing the maximum potential liability to agreed-upon amounts at the time the contract is entered into or unlimited liability. We have never incurred costs payable to a customer or business partner to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these warranties, and as a result, management believes the estimated fair value of these warranties is minimal. Accordingly, there are no liabilities recorded for these warranties as of June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.   





Acquisition of Monotype  



On July 25, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved and management executed a definitive agreement with a private equity firm, to acquire all outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock for $



19.85 per share in cash, or approximately $



825 million (the “Transaction”). The Transaction is subject to shareholder approval and other customary closing conditions.  



Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints. We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  



Item 1A. Risk Factors  



There are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form



 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



