In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion.
The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
Industrial - Industrial end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market.
The Industrial end market included $691.4 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $277.5 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition.The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards; In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.