 Item 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 





EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 



Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and application support. 



The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance. This overview is intended to be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report. 



The market for machine tools is international in scope. We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations. During the first three months of fiscal 2019, approximately 48% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines. Additionally, approximately 13% of our revenues were attributable to customers in the Asia Pacific region, where we encounter greater price pressures. 





We principally sell our products through more than 170 independent agents and distributors throughout North and South America (the “Americas”), Europe and Asia. Although some distributors carry competitive products, we are the primary line for the majority of our distributors globally. We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world's principal machine tool consumption markets. The vast majority of our machine tools are manufactured to our specifications primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Taiwan, HML. Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, NHML. Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy. 





Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 



Our high levels of foreign manufacturing and sales also expose us to cash flow risks due to fluctuating currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts. See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Three Months Ended January 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2018 



Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $74.2 million, an increase of $5.8 million, or 8%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.5 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 







Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for vertical milling machines 



European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes, and decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy and France. 



Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China. 





Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 







† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 



Sales of computerized machine tools for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%. The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools reflected increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S., India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China and Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy, France and Germany. Sales of computer control systems and software for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased sales in the U.S. and France. Sales of service parts increased by 18% during the first quarter of 2019, compared to the corresponding prior year period, reflecting increased aftermarket sales of service parts across all three regions and product lines. Sales of service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 6%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket service of Hurco products in Germany. 



Orders. Orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $68.0 million, a decrease of $8.9 million, or 12%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.8 million, or 4%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. 







Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to increased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines. 



European orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM. 





Asian Pacific orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 18%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 8% when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China, partially offset by increased customer demand for Hurco machines in Southeast Asia. 



Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $22.1 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 



Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $13.9 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $13.0 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $0.5 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



Operating Income. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 



Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $0.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 primarily due to foreign currency gains on transactions denominated in foreign currencies experienced in fiscal 2019 compared to foreign currency losses experienced in fiscal 2018. 



Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 27%, compared to 61% in the corresponding prior year period. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to a one-time provisional adjustment related to the Tax Reform Act that was enacted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The Tax Reform Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, implemented a territorial tax system and imposed a tax on the deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the changes in tax law, a one-time non-cash tax charge of $0.4 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, a one-time charge of $2.5 million related to the transition tax on deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign income was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



At January 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $69.8 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018. Approximately 67% of the $69.8 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations, is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities and is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 



Working capital was $201.1 million at January 31, 2019, compared to $194.6 million at October 31, 2018. The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and in accrued payroll and employee benefits. 



Capital expenditures of $1.2 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 were primarily for capital improvements in existing facilities and software development costs. We funded these expenditures with cash on hand. 



In December 2012, we entered into the 2012 Credit Agreement, which was in effect through the scheduled maturity date of December 31, 2018, when it terminated. Effective as of December 31, 2018, we and our subsidiary Hurco B.V. entered into the 2018 Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as the lender. The 2018 Credit Agreement is described further in Note 10 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 





In December 2018, in connection with our entry into the 2018 Credit Agreement, (1) using cash on hand, we repaid in full the $1.4 million outstanding under, and terminated, our credit facility in China and (2) we terminated our United Kingdom credit facility. As a result, as of January 31, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement.  



At January 31, 2019, we had no debt or borrowings under any of our credit facilities. At January 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $41.7 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 



We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 



We continue to receive and review information on businesses and assets for potential acquisition, including intellectual property assets that are available for purchase. 



On March 6, 2019, HML, our wholly owned subsidiary in Taiwan, closed on an uncommitted revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of 150 million New Taiwan Dollars, or approximately $5.0 million (the “Taiwan credit facility”). The Taiwan credit facility has a final maturity date of March 5, 2020. Also on March 6, 2019, NHML, our wholly owned subsidiary in China, closed on an uncommitted revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of 32.5 million Chinese Yuan, or approximately $5.0 million (the “China credit facility”). The China credit facility has a final maturity date of March 5, 2020. No amounts were outstanding under either of these credit facilities as of March 8, 2019. 



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Our accounting policies, which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made. These estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. If our future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of operations and financial condition would be affected. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019. 



CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 



There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. 



OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of January 31, 2019, we had 25 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $687,000. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 





CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 



Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: 



 ·The cyclical nature of the machine tool industry; 



 ·Uncertain economic conditions, which may adversely affect overall demand, in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific markets; 



 ·The risks of our international operations; 



 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 



 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 



 ·Our dependence on new product development; 



 ·Possible obsolescence of our technology and the need to make technological advances; 



 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 



 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 



 ·Acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and affect operating results; 



 ·Impairment of our assets; 



 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 





 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 



 ·Uncertainty concerning our ability to use tax loss carryforwards; 



 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 



 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel; and 



 ·Governmental actions, initiatives and regulations, including import and export restrictions, duties and tariffs and changes to tax laws. 



We discuss these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and may update that discussion in Part II, Item 1A – Risk Factors in this report or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q we file hereafter. 



Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. While we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report. 





 Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 







 (1)The Company does not have any publicly announced share repurchase plans or programs. 



 (2)Represents shares of our common stock that were withheld to satisfy the income tax obligations of recipients of awards of 37,999 restricted shares and earned performance shares granted under the 2008 Plan and 9,852 restricted shares granted under the 2016 Equity Plan in connection with the vesting of such awards. 



 Item 5.OTHER INFORMATION  



During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 





 Item 6.EXHIBITS  



EXHIBIT INDEX  







SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



   HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 





     Sonja K. McClelland 







