fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2019, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018.
The terms “fiscal 2020” and “fiscal 2019” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
2016-02, Leases, which established new FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 ("ASC 842"), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Consistent with prior GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike prior GAAP, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company adopted ASC 842 on May 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company continues to apply the legacy guidance in ASC 840, Leases, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented.
Therefore, the adjustment to recognize the Company’s leases on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the adoption of the new standard was recorded as of the adoption date and prior periods were not restated.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
The adoption had no impact on retained earnings, the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.


item2.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
Since the April World Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the United States further increased tariffs on certain Chinese imports and China retaliated by raising tariffs on a subset of US imports.
Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices.
Against this backdrop, global growth is forecast at 3.2 percent in 2019, picking up to 3.5 percent in 2020 (0.1 percentage point lower than in the April WEO projections for both years).
Investment and demand for consumer durables have been subdued across advanced and emerging market economies as firms and households continue to hold back on long-term spending.
The projected growth pickup in 2020 is precarious, presuming stabilization in currently stressed emerging market and developing economies and progress toward resolving trade policy differences."
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Our four brands - Logility, Demand Solutions, Halo and NGC Software - provide a single platform spanning eight supply chain process areas, including demand optimization, inventory optimization, supply optimization, retail optimization, quality and compliance, product lifecycle management, sourcing management and integrated business planning.
Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.
Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”).


item3.txt
In the three months ended July 31, 2019, we generated approximately 22% of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


