fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2018, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.


item2.txt
In July 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
The update noted that, “Global growth is projected to reach 3.9 percent in 2018 and 2019, in line with the forecast of the April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO), but the expansion is becoming less even, and risks to the outlook are mounting.
In the United States, near-term momentum is strengthening in line with the April WEO forecast, and the US dollar has appreciated by around 5 percent in recent weeks.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Intangibles—Goodwill and Other topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.


item3.txt
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.


