fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 13 for additional information on discontinued operations.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
This note reflects the accounting policy change for revenue starting on the date of adoption.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price.
The current portion is recorded in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K.
The Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease to the income tax expense was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.


