fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.


item1.txt
CSP Inc. ("CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
This expense has been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
This expense has also been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
Domestically, the Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
The following tables presents certain operating segment information for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The ASU has added additional disclosure requirements to the codification.
It requires management to assess, at each interim and annual reporting period, whether substantial doubt exists about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The amendments in this Topic are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
This should not result in a change in practice because the guidance that is being superseded was never effective.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.4 million in our TS segment, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
The TS segment revenues increase of $2.4 million was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $0.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $1.8 million in our U.K. division, partially offset by decreases of $0.8 million and $0.1 million in our U.S and German divisions, respectively.
The increase in TS segment service revenues of $1.4 million during the period was primarily the result of increases of $1.0 million, $0.3 million and $0.1 million of our U.S., German and U.K.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 59% for the period.
The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in service margins as a percentage of TS segment revenues, which is substantially due to having improved margins in our U.K. and Germany divisions.
The engineering and development expenses incurred by our HPP segment were $0.7 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The current period expenses were primarily for Myricom product engineering expenses incurred in connection with the development of the new Myricom ARIA security products.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017.
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.


