fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.


item2.txt
reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 2%, to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The effective tax rate for the current quarter is 18.7%.
TS segment revenues decreased by $0.1 million, and HPP segment revenues decreased by $0.2 million.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $0.3 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $1.5 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by an increase of product revenue of $1.1 million in our U.K. division.
The $1.5 million decrease in the U.S. division was primarily the result of product sales to a major customer in the The $1.1 million increase in the U.K. division product revenues was primarily the result of increased product shipments to one major customer.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.3 million during the period.


item4.txt
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.


