All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.
timing.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
2014‑09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
On July 31, 2018, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of our Germany division of our TS segment.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
Our gross margin percentage decreased to 22% of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 from 26% for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $326 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to a tax expense of $249 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018.