fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud.
Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 4, 2017.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
In May 2014, August 2015, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, ASU 2015-14 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Deferral of the Effective Date, ASU 2016-10 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, ASU 2016-12 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 (ASC Topic 606) Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, respectively.
ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition.
This ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
Upon adoption, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based award activity are reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized in the Shareholder’s equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company also elected to continue to account for share-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, referred to herein as the “March 2018 quarter,” the “December 2017 quarter,” and the “March 2017 quarter,” respectively.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the March 2018 quarter to the December 2017 quarter and the March 2017 quarter.
In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
Our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud.
Our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, revenue in the March 2018 quarter increased by $129 million as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped primarily in the enterprise market, partially offset by price erosion.


item3.txt
As of March 30, 2018, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of March 30, 2018.


