fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Both the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.
The fiscal quarters ended March 29, 2019, December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018, and March 30, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “March 2019 quarter”, the “December 2018 quarter,” the “September 2018 quarter” and the “March 2018 quarter”, respectively.
The Company records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue.
For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs.
The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target Improvements, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.
The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 was not material.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended March 29, 2019, December 28, 2018 and March 30, 2018, referred to herein as the “March 2019 quarter,” the “December 2018 quarter,” and the “March 2018 quarter,” respectively.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles.
Our enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
We entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2019 Revolving Credit Facility”) and borrowed $200 million from the 2019 Revolving Credit Facility.
Revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased by $330 million from the nine months ended March 30, 2018 primarily due to price erosion, partially offset by an increase in exabytes shipped.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
Our 2019 revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus a variable margin.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of March 29, 2019.


