item1.txt
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.  
The Company’s HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where its products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where its products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”), and gaming consoles. The Company’s SSD products mainly include serial attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) SSDs.  
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.  
The results of operations for the three months ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 28, 2019. The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three months ended September 28, 2018 and the three months ended September 29, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2019, which ends on June 28, 2019, and fiscal year 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are both comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018, and September 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter ”, the “June 2018 quarter” and the “September 2017 quarter”, respectively.  
Revenue from sales of products is generally recognized upon transfer of control to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products, net of sales taxes. This typically occurs upon shipment from the Company. When applicable, the Company includes shipping charges billed to customers in Revenue and includes the related shipping costs in Cost of revenue on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target improvements, respectively. These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company plans to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and FASB also issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes the revenue recognition guidance under ASC 605. It also requires entities to disclose both quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. This ASU became effective and was adopted by the Company in the September 2018 quarter retrospectively with a cumulative adjustment to accumulated deficit at the date of adoption (“modified retrospective transition approach”). The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.  
As of September 28, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 28, 2018.  
$800 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due November 2018 (the “2018 Notes”). The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The issuer under the 2018 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2018 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the September 2017 quarter, the Company repurchased $22 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Notes for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recorded an immaterial loss on the repurchase during the three months ended September 29, 2017, which is included in Other, net on the Compnay’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no repurchases during the three months ended September 28, 2018. The remainder of the 2018 Notes were classified as Current portion of long-term debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter,” the “June 2018 quarter,” and the “September 2017 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks.  
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.  
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.  
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.  
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles. Our SSD products mainly include serial attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) SSDs.  
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $156 million from the June 2018 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher seasonal demand for our client and consumer markets, partially offset by price erosion.  
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $359 million from the September 2017 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by price erosion.  


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K. Pangea”). As of September 28, 2018, we had no impairment for our investment in debt security and we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 28, 2018.  
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.  


