item1.txt
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.  
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period in the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018. The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the three and six months ended December 30, 2016 consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively. Fiscal year 2018 will be comprised of 52 weeks and will end on June 29, 2018. The fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, are also referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter”, the “September 2017 quarter”, and the “December 2016 quarter”, respectively.  
In May 2014, August 2015, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, ASU 2015-14 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Deferral of the Effective Date, ASU 2016-10 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, ASU 2016-12 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 (ASC Topic 606) Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, respectively. ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. It also requires entities to disclose both quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This standard may be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, or retrospectively with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the year of adoption (“modified retrospective transition approach”). Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition. While management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of adopting this new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, the Company expects the adoption of the new standard will result in the recognition of revenues generally upon shipment (sell-in basis) for sales of products to certain direct retail customers and customers in certain indirect retail channels which are currently being recognized on a sell-through basis. Accordingly, the Company will need to estimate variable consideration (e.g. rebates) related to customer incentives on these arrangements. These changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 (ASC Subtopic 825-10), Financial Instruments—Overall Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The amendments in this ASU require entities to measure all investments in equity securities at fair value with changes recognized through net income. This requirement does not apply to investments that qualify for the equity method of accounting, to those that result in consolidation of the investee, or for which the entity meets a practicability exception to fair value measurement. Additionally, the amendments eliminate certain disclosure requirements related to financial instruments measured at amortized cost and add disclosures related to the measurement categories of financial assets and financial liabilities. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted for only certain portions of the ASU. The Company expects to elect the measurement alternative for measurement of equity investments, defined as cost, less impairments, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer (the “Price Changes”) until the equity investments’ fair value becomes readily determinable. The amount of the impact to equity investments will depend on any Price Changes observed after adoption in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases. The ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$700 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”). The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”). The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $13 million and $19 million in the three and six months ended December 30, 2016, respectively. The income tax provision for the six months ended December 30, 2016 included approximately $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, primarily associated with the release of tax reserves associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation and prior year tax adjustments.  
On October 6, 2015, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Dot Hill Systems Corp. (“Dot Hill”), a supplier of software and hardware storage systems. The Company paid $9.75 per share, or $674 million, in cash for the acquisition. The acquisition of Dot Hill further expands the Company’s OEM-focused cloud storage systems business and advances the Company’s strategic efforts.  
Other intangible assets consist primarily of existing technology, customer relationships and trade names acquired in business combinations. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortization is charged to Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
For the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $33 million and $84 million, respectively, comprised primarily of charges related to workforce reduction costs and facility exit costs associated with the restructuring of its workforce during the fiscal year. The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter,” the “September 2017 quarter,” and the “December 2016 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The December 2017, September 2017 and December 2016 quarters were all 13 weeks.  
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.  
   •   Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.  
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.  
Our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased by 200 basis points from the September 2017 quarter primarily driven by favorable product mix and improved absorption of factories due to higher demand for the Company’s high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.  
Compared to the corresponding three and six months ended December 2016 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and improved factory utilization resulting from cost savings due to our workforce reductions and manufacturing consolidation activities.  
In the December 2017 quarter, total warranty cost was within the historical range of 1% to 1.5% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of less than 0.2% of revenue. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.4%, 1.3%, and 1.2% of revenue for each of the December 2017, September 2017 and December 2016 quarters, respectively.  
Product development expense. Product development expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased by $13 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a $4 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $13 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense.  


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the changes as a result of the British vote to exit the European Union.  


item4.txt
 † The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.  


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  
See Exhibit Index on the page to this Quarterly Report for a list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report, which Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.  


