fls.txt
This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures).
In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that deferred the effective date of the standard by one year, while continuing to permit entities to elect to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date.
As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.
•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language; 
This standard requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to existing lease guidance under GAAP.


item2.txt
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily attributable to higher pension income and productivity savings.
The slight increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were due to higher direct selling costs.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $30 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, partially offset by the effect of the other items discussed above regarding the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


