fls.txt



item1.txt
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
Although we are continuing to evaluate the impact to our consolidated balance sheet of recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for the majority of our current lease obligations, which could be material, we do not expect this standard to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
During the two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and comparability of segment operating margin percentage reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
transaction and integration costs and the timing of other expense accruals in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v.
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleges that the Harris Parties are liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Although the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend vigorously against them and any other lawsuits challenging the pending merger.
Therefore, at this time, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on us or the merger.


