fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales are recorded net of estimated returns, rebates and discounts.
The Company provides product warranties and certain post-shipment service, support and maintenance of certain solid state LED video screens.
Installation revenue is recognized when the products have been fully installed.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities, other than normal warranties.
Service revenue from integrated design, project and construction management, and site permitting is recognized when all products at a customer site have been installed.
In situations where the Company is responsible for re-imaging programs with multiple sites, each site is viewed as a separate unit of accounting and has stand-alone value to the customer.
The selling price assigned to each site is based upon an agreed upon price between the Company and its customer and reflects the estimated selling price for that site relative to the selling price for sites with similar image requirements.
Our solid-state LED video screens and active digital signage contain software elements which the Company has determined are incidental.
Receivables deemed uncollectable are written-off against the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable after all reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
The Company first determines its obsolete inventory reserve by considering specific known obsolete items, and then by applying certain percentages to specific inventory categories based upon inventory turns.
A combination of financial modeling and qualitative input factors are used to establish excess and obsolete inventory reserves and management adjusts these reserves as more information becomes available about the ultimate disposition of the inventory item.
The definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized to expense over periods ranging between seven and twenty years.
The Company evaluates definite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment when triggering events are identified.


item2.txt
Fiscal 2018 second quarter net sales of $92,305,000 increased $6.6 million or 7.8% as compared to second quarter fiscal 2017 net sales of $85,658,000.
Fiscal 2018 first half net sales of $179,771,000 increased $10 million or 5.9% as compared to first half fiscal 2017 net sales of $169,817,000.
The increase in adjusted operating income was the net result of increased net sales, increased gross profit and increased gross profit as a percentage of sales, and an increase in selling and administrative expenses.
The change from operating income in fiscal 2017 to an operating loss in fiscal 2018 is primarily the result of a $28 million goodwill impairment in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
The reconciliation of reported net income and earnings per share to adjusted net income and earnings per share may not agree due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The Lighting Segment’s net sales of light fixtures having solid-state LED technology totaled $57.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, representing an $11.6 million or 25.1% increase from fiscal 2017 second quarter net sales of solid-state LED light fixtures of $46.1 million.
There was a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018 as customers continue to convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.
Lighting Segment total net sales of solid-state LED technology in light fixtures have been recorded as indicated in the table below.
Our comparable selling and administrative expenses excluding Atlas decreased 16.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 from the same period of fiscal 2017.
The $1.5 million increase in operating income was the net result of increased net sales, an increase in gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of sales, increased selling and administrative expenses, and plant closure costs in fiscal 2017 with no comparable expenses in fiscal 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
31.1    Certification of Principal Executive Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) 32.2    Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document


