fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales are recorded net of estimated returns, rebates and discounts.
The Company provides product warranties and certain post-shipment service, support and maintenance of certain solid state LED video screens.
Installation revenue is recognized when the products have been fully installed.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities, other than normal warranties.
Service revenue from integrated design, project and construction management, and site permitting is recognized when all products at a customer site have been installed.
In situations where the Company is responsible for re-imaging programs with multiple sites, each site is viewed as a separate unit of accounting and has stand-alone value to the customer.
The selling price assigned to each site is based upon an agreed upon price between the Company and its customer and reflects the estimated selling price for that site relative to the selling price for sites with similar image requirements.
Our solid-state LED video screens and active digital signage contain software elements which the Company has determined are incidental.
Receivables deemed uncollectable are written-off against the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable after all reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
The Company first determines its obsolete inventory reserve by considering specific known obsolete items, and then by applying certain percentages to specific inventory categories based upon inventory turns.
A combination of financial modeling and qualitative input factors are used to establish excess and obsolete inventory reserves and management adjusts these reserves as more information becomes available about the ultimate disposition of the inventory item.
The definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized to expense over periods ranging between seven and twenty years.


item2.txt
Fiscal 2018 third quarter net sales of $78,843,000 increased $0.7 million or 0.9% as compared to third quarter fiscal 2017 net sales of $78,156,000.
Fiscal 2018 nine month net sales of $258,614,000 increased $10.6 million or 4.3% as compared to nine month fiscal 2017 net sales of $247,973,000.
Also contributing to the year-over-year change from operating income in fiscal 2017 to an operating loss in fiscal 2018 is the net result of increased net sales, increased gross profit and increased gross profit as a percentage of sales, and an increase in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
Adjusted operating income, net income and earnings per share, which exclude the impact of a goodwill and intangible asset impairment, a tax charge related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets, restructuring and plant closure costs, acquisition deal costs, a fair market value inventory adjustment, and other severance costs, are non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
The reconciliation of reported net income and earnings per share to adjusted net income and earnings per share may not agree due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The Lighting Segment’s net sales of light fixtures having solid-state LED technology totaled $51.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, representing a $6.3 million or 14.0% increase from fiscal 2017 third quarter net sales of solid-state LED light fixtures of $44.9 million.
There was a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018 as customers continue to convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.
Lighting Segment total net sales of solid-state LED technology in light fixtures have been recorded as indicated in the table below.
Our comparable selling and administrative expenses excluding Atlas increased 3.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 from the same period of fiscal 2017.
Gross profit as a percentage of segment net sales (customer plus inter-segment net sales) increased from 21.0% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 22.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



