fls.txt
Such statements, whether expressed or implied, are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made.


item1.txt
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of  June 30, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning  July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period.
The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on  July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below.
In  February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases.


item2.txt
Fiscal 2019 first quarter net sales of $84,957,000 decreased $2.5 million or 2.9% as compared to first quarter fiscal 2018.
Also contributing to the period-over-period results is a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 which resulted in a favorable pre-tax adjustment to earnings of $1.2 million.
On October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility.
Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment.
The transfer of production is expected to be completed by June 30, 2019.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
The Lighting Segment’s net sales of light fixtures having solid-state LED technology totaled $49.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 which represent 91% of total lighting product net sales.
There continues to be a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) as customers convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.
The Lighting Segment first quarter fiscal 2019 operating income of $3,850,000 increased $26.8 million from an operating loss of $(22,930,000) in the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a $28 million pre-tax goodwill impairment charge.


item4.txt



part2.txt
31.1   Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) 32.1   Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document


