fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company incurred $6 million of transaction expenses related to these acquisitions, which are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 or December 30, 2016.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies which do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost.
There were no impairment charges during the three months ended December 29, 2017 and $6 million of impairment charges for the six months ended December 29, 2017, which were included in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, these investments aggregated $57 million and $91 million, respectively, and are reported under Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
In connection with the Refinancing Transactions, we have announced that we intend to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock in privately negotiated or open market transactions.
For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
We previously asserted our consent rights under the terms of the Flash Ventures agreements with respect to the transactions involving, among other things, the transfer by Toshiba of its interests in Flash Ventures to TMC, and the proposed sale of TMC to a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.


