fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
The adoption of this standard and the costs capitalized for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as of or for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, and the Company expects that the impact of the adoption of the new standard will not be material to its results of operations prospectively.
The Company offers a broad range of data storage products that include Client Devices, Data Center Devices and Solutions, and Client Solutions.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery.
Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer.
The Company’s customer payment terms are typically less than three months from the date control over the product or service is transferred to the customer.
Other direct incremental costs to obtain contracts that have an expected benefit of greater than one year are amortized over the period of expected cash flows from the related contracts, and the amortization expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue.
Total capitalized contract costs and the related amortization as of and for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 were not material.
As of March 29, 2019 and the date of adoption of Topic 606, contract liabilities were $46 million and $120 million, respectively, and were reflected in Accrued expenses.
Changes in the contract liability balance during the nine months ended March 29, 2019 include $93 million of revenue recognized during the period of which the substantial majority relates to the balance that was deferred at June 29, 2018, partially offset by payments received and billings in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
The Company’s top 10 customers accounted for 41% and 45% of its net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 44% and 42% of its net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenue.


item2.txt
As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined in recent quarters.
We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase.
The decrease in net revenue in the three months ended March 29, 2019 from the comparable period of the prior year was primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of HDD products.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
We partner with TMC on the development of flash-based technology, including the next technology transitions of flash-based memory, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures.
Over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures.
We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.


