fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangible assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the expenses incurred by the Company related to these acquisitions were immaterial and are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 or March 31, 2017.
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $9 million and $15 million, respectively, which were included in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $7 million and $11 million, respectively.


item2.txt
Term Loan B-2”) with the proceeds of a new issuance of a $2.96 billion U.S. dollar-denominated term loan (“U.S.
Term Loan B-3”) at an interest rate lower than our U.S. •In February 2018, we made a voluntary partial prepayment of $500 million of the U.S. •In February and March 2018, we completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.375% senior secured notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.875 billion (the “2023 Notes”) and the tender offer and redemption and settlement of all of our outstanding 10.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024 in the aggregate principal amount of $3.350 billion (the “2024 Notes” and collectively with the 2023 Notes, the “Existing Notes”).
For additional information regarding our debt facilities, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures.


