fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
This standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption or for the three months ended September 28, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as of or for the three-month period ended September 28, 2018, and the Company expects that the impact of the adoption of the new standard will not be material to its results of operations prospectively.
The Company offers a broad range of data storage products that include Client Devices, Data Center Devices and Solutions, and Client Solutions.
Client Devices consist of hard disk drives (“HDDs”) and solid state drives (“SSDs”) for computing devices; flash-based embedded storage products; and flash-based memory wafers.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to the customer.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery.
Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer.
The Company’s customer payment terms are typically less than three months from the date control over the product or service is transferred to the customer.
The Company did not have any contract assets as of either September 28, 2018 or the date of adoption of Topic 606.
The Company has applied the practical expedient to recognize the direct incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period is expected to be one year or less or the amount is not material, with these costs charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the Company’s policy was to expense all contract acquisition costs as incurred.


item2.txt
Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read this information in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed  Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Part II, Item 8, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand.
The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
We partner with TMC on the development of flash-based technology, including the next technology transitions of flash-based memory, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures.
We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.


