fls.txt



item1.txt
Western Digital Corporation (“Western Digital” or “the Company”) is a leading developer, manufacturer, and provider of data storage devices and solutions that address the evolving needs of the information technology (“IT”) industry and the infrastructure that enables the proliferation of data in virtually every other industry.
Everywhere data lives, from advanced data centers to mobile sensors to personal devices, the Company’s industry-leading solutions deliver the possibilities of data.
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
The Company did not have any contract assets as of either October 4, 2019 or June 28, 2019.
The Company has applied the practical expedient to recognize the direct incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period is expected to be one year or less or the amount is not material, with these costs charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
Total capitalized contract costs as of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019 as well as the related amortization for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018 were not material.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, contract liabilities were not material.
From time to time, in connection with factoring agreements, the Company sells trade accounts receivable without recourse to third party purchasers in exchange for cash.
During the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, the Company sold trade accounts receivable and received cash proceeds of $85 million and $243 million, respectively.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the amount of factored receivables that remained outstanding was $85 million and $318 million, respectively.
Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
During the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between levels.


item2.txt
We are a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions that address the evolving needs of the information technology (“IT”) industry and the infrastructure that enables the proliferation of data in virtually every other industry.
Everywhere data lives, from advanced data centers to mobile sensors to personal devices, our industry-leading solutions deliver the possibilities of data.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.
Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, will be comprised of 53 weeks, with the first quarter consisting of 14 weeks and the remaining quarters consisting of 13 weeks each.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Kioxia Corporation (“Kioxia”) for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We depend on our ventures with Kioxia to develop and manufacture our flash-based memory.
We partner with Kioxia on the development of flash-based technology, including future generations of 3D NAND, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of Flash Ventures’ capacity.
We are contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
Output from the initial production line, which is expected in the first half of calendar year 2020, could be delayed, reduced or otherwise fail to meet our expectations.
Further, although we intend to continue to jointly invest with Kioxia to ramp up manufacturing capacity at K1, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
If and for so long as our share of the K1 capacity falls below a specified threshold, we will be responsible for bearing fixed costs associated with K1’s operations at that threshold, which could adversely affect our financial results.


