The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and 2017.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
The following tables present certain operating segment information for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services. 
The following table summarizes the results of discontinued operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts. Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty. Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping. Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
We recognize revenue from third-party service contracts as either gross sales or net sales depending on whether the Company is acting as a principal party to the transaction or simply acting as an agent or broker based on control and timing. The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer. We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent. Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded in revenue and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in cost of goods sold. Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded as a reduction to revenue resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the transaction. Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services. We have determined the 
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software. Financing revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 840, Leases. Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company's central operations.
The Company has certain contracts that have an original term of more than one year. The royalty agreement is longer than one year and managed service contracts are longer than one year. For these contracts the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of December 31, 2018 is $6.3 million. This revenue is expected to be recognized over 5 years and relates mainly to managed service contracts. 
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support. Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
When product and services are sold together, the allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation is calculated using a budgeted cost-plus margin approach. Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price. These estimates are periodically reviewed by project managers, engineers, and other staff involved to ensure estimates are appropriate. For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract. Certain managed services contracts include financing of hardware and software. Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement. The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840. The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
December 31, 2018, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more for the three months ended December 31, 2018. Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $2.0 million, or 12%, and approximately $0.2 million, or 2%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively. We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the accounts receivable with these customers as of December 31, 2018.increased revenues by our TS segment of approximately $4.7 million, partially offset by decreased sales by our HPP segment of approximately $0.3 million. The $1.8 million decrease in Europe revenue is primarily due to decreased sales by our TS segment for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year period. The slight $30 thousand decrease in Asia is primarily the result of decreased product sales by our HPP segment to a customer of approximately $51 thousand, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $21 thousand. 
The $2.4 million increase in total revenues is primarily attributed to a $2.8 million increase by our TS segment partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease by our HPP segment. The $4.2 million increase in the Americas revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 is primarily due to 
 Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017. 
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $1.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $2.7 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a decrease in product revenues of $0.8 million in our U.K division. The $2.7 million increase in the U.S. division product revenues was primarily the result of several completed large product orders and the $0.8 million decrease in the U.K. was due to the reduction of sales from one major customer. The increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in service revenue of $1.0 million in our U.S. division, comprised of a $0.4 million increase in third party service revenues, a $0.3 million increase in third party maintenance revenues, and a $0.2 million increase in managed service contract revenues. 
The increase in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.1 million was primarily the result of an increase of approximately $0.4 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to shipments of parts related to the E2D program, partially offset by a decrease in Myricom product line shipments of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.6 million for the period was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in royalty revenues on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017. 
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue. The TS segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by the fulfillment of several large product orders in the U.S. division and increased volume in services revenue, which was partially offset by the reduction of sales from a major customer in the U.K. division. The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017. Our overall gross margin percentage decreased to 23% of revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 from 26% of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018. Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The decrease to the income tax expense was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017.