fls.txt
The discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company set forth below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form10-Q.


item1.txt



item2.txt
The statements contained in this Form10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27a of the Securities Act and Section 21e of the Exchange Act.
We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other related matters.
It is possible that information we post on some of these channels could be deemed to be material information.
Issuer Direct is an industry-leading global communications and compliance company focusing on the needs of corporate issuers.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
We also sell products and services to others in the financial services industry, including brokerage firms, banks and mutual funds.
Our ACCESSWIRE® news business offering represented a majority of the year over year growth in our Platform and Technology revenue during 2017 and continues to lead our transition to a full platform solution.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
Certain of these capabilities were historically part of our disclosure management and shareholder communications offerings, but are now included into our fully integrated platform.
We will continue to brand our press release offerings under the name ACCESSWIRE, which we believe will solidify our market position in the newswire business.
Our ACCESSWIRE news editing offering is available within our core Platform id.
This module is centered around both our shareholder communications and news distribution offerings.
This has been accomplished by integrating our shareholder outreach module, formerly known as Investor Network, into and with Platform id.
Most of the customers subscribing to this module today are historical PrecisionIR (“PIR”) – Annual Report Service (“ARS”) users, as well as new customers purchasing the entire Platform id.
We have migrated some of the customers from the traditional ARS business into this new digital subscription business.
Initially, this has been broadly distributed via our Investor Network platform, with expectations that partners and publishers will license this dataset for their platforms in the future.
This API license will allow publishers to query an industry or a single companies' current and past earnings calls and present those webcasts on their platforms, under a subscription to Platform id.
We believe these analytics will increase the demand for our webcasting platform among the corporate issuer community.
The clear benefit to our investor relations module is its integration into and with the rest of Platform id., meaning companies can produce content for public distribution and it is automatically linked to their corporate site, distributed to targeted groups and placed into and with our data feed partners.
Platform id.’s disclosure reporting module is a document conversion, editing and filing offering, which is designed for reporting companies and professionals seeking to insource the document drafting, editing and filing processes to the SEC’s EDGAR system and SEDAR, which is the Canadian equivalent of EDGAR.
These upgrades also include meeting new SEC mandates for foreign filers that compile financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to be able to utilize our cloud-based platform.
Foreign filers with fiscal year’s ending on or after December 15, 2017, are now required to begin reporting their financial statements in XBRL with the SEC in 2018. has adopted the new IFRS taxonomy into and with its new disclosure upgrade for iXBRL to ensure our customers are able to meet these new mandates.
Our whistleblower module is an add-on product within Platform id.
A valued subscription add-on in our Platform id.
Managing the capitalization table of a public company or pre-IPO company is the cornerstone of corporate governance and transparency, and as such companies and community banks have chosen us to assist with their stock transfer needs, including bond offerings and dividend management.


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
None.


