item1.txt
Financial Statements.
We develop and sell devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store, and transmit information.
In the opinion of management, these financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We recognize revenue over a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
2018-02, Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
The adoption resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings due to the change in the federal corporate tax rate.
In  August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
2014-09, which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification 605, Revenue Recognition.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable security transactions are reported on the specific-identification method.
Total available-for-sale securities represented approximately 89% of our total assets.
Marketable securities as of  September 30, 2018 had remaining maturities between one and 55 months.
Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 3 – Inputs to the fair value measurement are unobservable inputs or valuation techniques.
None of the securities were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed to declines in credit quality.
We calculate the share-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model.
On  January 21, 2009 we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock, and on  August 27, 2015 we announced that our Board authorized $5,000,000 of additional repurchases.
The remaining authorization was $4,540,806 as of  September 30, 2018.
The Repurchase Program  may be modified or discontinued at any time without notice.


