item1.txt
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
Revenue from sales to the Company's distributors is recognized upon shipment of the product to the distributors (sell-in) and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return.
In January 2016, the FASB issued final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are attributable to their own credit.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018 and recorded the balance of the unrealized losses of $11.0 million as of the end of fiscal 2018 from its investment in debt mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, less the related deferred taxes of $2.6 million.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact and also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.
For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
As of June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, the Company held no marketable securities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $49.6 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies, together with its non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, are recorded at fair value only if the Company recognizes an impairment or an observable price adjustment.
Starting April 1, 2018, the Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds and marketable equity securities as part of its interest and other income (expense), net.
This change in fair value was a net decrease of $6.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and resulted in an expense within interest and other income (expense) net for the period.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities), by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
As a result of the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.
As of June 30, 2018, all of the forward foreign currency exchange contracts were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges and the effective portion of the gain or loss on the forward contracts was reported as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into net income in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
Any subsequent changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $7.4 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts and also a reduction from the carrying amount of 2024 Notes.
The Company does not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The potential effect of rights of set-off associated with the derivative financial instruments was not material to the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented.
The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and the number of options outstanding as of June 30, 2018 were not material.
This intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of exercise.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, the Company realized an immaterial amount of excess tax benefits in the condensed consolidated statements of income as a component of the provision for income taxes.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans, the incremental shares issuable assuming conversion of the Company's $600.0 million principal amount of 2.625% convertible notes issued in June 2010 (2017 Convertible Notes), before its maturity on June 15, 2017, and exercise of warrants on a weighted-average outstanding basis, before the final settlements during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Outstanding stock options and RSUs under the Company's stock award plans to purchase approximately 366 thousand and 152 thousand shares for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the diluted net income per common share calculation by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been antidilutive.
These options and RSUs could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs. On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.477% and 99.281% of par, respectively.
The Company received net proceeds of $990.1 million from issuance of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company pays on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and receives on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $851 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and earned a net interest income of $643 thousand for the three months ended July 1, 2017, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company recorded a tax provision of $22.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to $13.7 million in the same prior year period, representing effective tax rates of 11% and 8%, respectively.
The TCJA provides numerous significant tax law changes including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and the Company's effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the beneficial impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, which was partially offset by the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and the Company’s effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, for which no U.S. income tax had been provided, as the Company had intended to permanently reinvest the earnings outside of the U.S. The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2018, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by $825 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to $126.0 million.
The $85.5 million relates to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns for fiscal 2014 for repurchase premium paid in that year in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037.
The Company’s policy is to include interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities within the provision for income taxes on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.
The Company offers, subject to certain terms and conditions, to indemnify customers and distributors for costs and damages awarded against these parties in the event the Company’s hardware products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights or trademarks, and to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event the Company's hardware products experience epidemic failure.
However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any financial liabilities in the future as a result of these obligations.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this decision on its financial statements and is unable to estimate the impact at this time.
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.


item2.txt
Net revenues from Core Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues in Japan increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The 11% increase in stock-based compensation expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.
Our net interest and other income (expense) was a net other expense of $2.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to a net other income of $1.8 million in the same prior year period.
The increase in the effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries and a decrease in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation.
The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increases in income tax payable and accounts payable.
Net cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $403.9 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $26.4 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles and $13.9 million of other investing activities.


item3.txt
As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments.
A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at June 30, 2018 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $13.0 million.


part2.txt
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.
We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
In addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results.
If weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.


