item1.txt
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
Revenue from sales to the Company's distributors is recognized upon shipment of the product to the distributors (sell-in) and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return.
In January 2016, the FASB issued final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are attributable to their own credit.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018 and recorded the balance of the unrealized losses of $11.0 million as of the end of fiscal 2018 from its investment in debt mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, less the related deferred taxes of $2.6 million.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company plans to adopt the new standard using the optional adoption method and apply the guidance to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the period of adoption, as well as certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance.
The Company is currently evaluating the application of the new guidance and it believes the impact upon adoption will be the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheets of an insignificant amount.
For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, Avnet's revenue accounted for 41% and 43% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact.
For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 2.125% notes due March 15, 2019 (2019 Notes), $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
As of December 29, 2018, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $61.0 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, are recorded at fair value only if the Company recognizes an impairment.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are also recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
Starting April 1, 2018, the Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds and marketable equity securities as part of its interest and other income, net.
This change in fair value was a net decrease of $3.0 million and $9.2 million for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018, respectively, and resulted in an expense within interest and other income (expense), net for the period in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the company has received interest payments as they become due.
The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
Any subsequent changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
During the nine months ended December 29, 2018, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $5.9 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts and as a reduction from the carrying amount of the 2024 Notes.
The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the number of options outstanding as of December 29, 2018 were not material.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, the Company withheld $42.0 million and $44.4 million worth of RSU awards, respectively, to satisfy the employees’ tax obligations.
During the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $1.5 million 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $17.5 million.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans, the incremental shares issuable assuming conversion of the Company's $600.0 million principal amount of 2.625% convertible notes issued in June 2010 (2017 Convertible Notes), before its maturity on June 15, 2017, and exercise of warrants on a weighted-average outstanding basis, before the final settlements during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Outstanding stock options and RSUs under the Company's stock award plans to purchase approximately 0 and 2,700 shares for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, were excluded from the diluted net income per common share calculation by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been antidilutive.
These options and RSUs could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs. On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.477% and 99.281% of par, respectively.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company pays on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and receives on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $939 thousand and $2.4 million for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $17.2 million and $63.5 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 6.7% and 9.0%, respectively.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $179.3 million and $213.2 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 107.5% and 40.1%, respectively.
The TCJA provides numerous significant tax law changes including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 allowed companies to record provisional amounts and recognize the effect of the tax law changes during a measurement period.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made an accounting policy election with respect to the TCJA provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of foreign subsidiaries.
Rather than treating the impact of taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred, the Company elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences that are expected to reverse in future years.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and the Company's effective tax rate in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the favorable impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, which was partially offset by the new tax on GILTI.
The difference between the blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 31.5% and the Company's effective tax rate in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of the related deferred tax liabilities.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by an immaterial amount to $126.7 million.
The $85.5 million relates to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns for fiscal 2014 for repurchase premium paid in that year in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037.
The Company’s policy is to include interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities within the provision for income taxes on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.
The Company offers, subject to certain terms and conditions, to indemnify customers and distributors for costs and damages awarded against these parties in the event the Company’s hardware products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights or trademarks, and to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event the Company's hardware products experience epidemic failure.
Total purchase consideration to acquire Deephi Tech was $251.9 million, including $11.5 million of fair value from the Company's preexisting investment in Deephi Tech, $200 thousand of unsettled payments to Deephi Tech equity holders and $6.3 million of cash acquired.
The Company incurred $3.4 million of acquisition related costs, which was recorded in the operating expenses of condensed consolidated statements of income.
Subsequent to the acquisition, the financial results for Deephi Tech are included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit risk and financial market conditions.
Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal on our investments including our interest rate swap contracts if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions.


item2.txt
Net revenues from Core Products also increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Communications increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in North America increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Japan increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our net interest and other income decreased by $6.9 million as compared to the same prior year period.
The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable and decreases in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.


item3.txt
The net unrealized losses, which approximate the fair market value of the forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.
As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments.
A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 29, 2018 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $14.0 million.


part2.txt
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.
We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
In addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results.
If weak economic conditions happen (including as result of a prolonged U.S. government shutdown), there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit risk which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the market value of our investment portfolio and interest rate swap contracts.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results.
Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.


