item1.txt
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2017.
In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new global revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The Company is currently evaluating the full impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements, including selection of the transition method.
However, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, it is expected that the new authoritative guidance would require the Company to recognize revenue and cost relating to distributor sales upon product delivery (Sell-In), subject to estimated allowance for distributor price adjustments and rights of return, rather than deferring the distributor sales upon product delivery and subsequently recognizing revenue when the product is sold by the distributor to the end customer (Sell-Through).
Upon adoption, the Company currently expects that it will record the balance of the deferred revenue (subject to true-ups) under Sell-Through to retained earnings, and the impact would be offset by the recognition of revenue on shipments post adoption under Sell-In. The Company continues to evaluate the impact to revenues and related disclosures related to the pending adoption of the new guidance and the preliminary assessments are subject to change.
In January 2016, the FASB issued the final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option.
Upon adoption, the Company will record all of the unrealized gains or losses from its investment in mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, and subsequent changes in fair value from such investments will be recorded under its consolidated statements of income.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 42% and 45% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively.
For the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 42% and 43% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the third quarter as well as the first nine months of fiscal years 2018 and 2017.
The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
Any subsequent changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
During the nine months ended December 30, 2017, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $11.8 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts (as a component of other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets) and also a reduction from the carrying amount of 2024 Notes.
To date, the Company has issued a mix of non-qualified stock options and RSUs under the 2007 Equity Plan; however, there was no issuance of stock options during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 and the entire fiscal year 2017.
The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 and the number of options outstanding as of December 30, 2017 
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company realized an immaterial amount of excess tax benefits after adjusting for the impact of the decrease in the tax rate from 35% to 31.5% due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as detailed in “Note 14.
Financial Information.” During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $17.5 million.
During the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $1.2 million and $10.9 million, respectively.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans, the incremental shares issuable assuming conversion of the Company's $600.0 million principal amount of 2.625% convertible notes issued in June 2010 (2017 Convertible Notes), before its maturity on June 15, 2017, and exercise of warrants on a weighted-average outstanding basis.
The 2017 Convertible Notes matured during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, and the Company exercised its call options to neutralize the dilutive effect of the incremental shares from the 2017 Convertible Notes.
Outstanding stock options and RSUs under the Company's stock award plans to purchase approximately 248 thousand and 3.4 million shares, for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively, were excluded from diluted net income per common share by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Upon settlement, the holders received a cash payment equal to the par value of the 2017 Convertible Notes of $457.9 million, as well as 9.0 million shares of the Company's common stock.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company pays on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and receives on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company earned a net interest income of $1.3 million and $3.4 million during the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income as a reduction to interest expense.
During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, the Company repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock in the open market and through accelerated share repurchase agreements with multiple independent financial institutions for a total of $310.8 million.
During the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, the Company repurchased 8.0 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $414.0 million.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $183.2 million and $217.7 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 94% and 39%, respectively.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $20.7 million and $50.8 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 13% and 10%, respectively.
The TCJA provides for numerous significant tax law changes and modifications including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings.
Since the Company has a fiscal year rather than a calendar year, it is subject to rules relating to transitional tax rates.
The change in the statutory tax rate from 35% to 31.5% for the Company's fiscal year 2018 does not have a significant impact on the effective tax rate.
The Company recognized a provisional amount of $183.2 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations.
The Company will continue to assess the impact of the recently enacted tax law (and expected further guidance from federal and state tax authorities as well as further guidance for the associated income tax accounting) on its business and consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the Company released the related deferred tax liabilities, resulting in a decrease in income tax expense of $424.3 million.
As a result of the reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21%, U.S. GAAP requires companies to remeasure their deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the date of enactment, with resulting tax effects accounted for in the reporting period of enactment.
The difference between the blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 31.5% and the Company's effective tax rate in all periods of fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of the related deferred tax liabilities.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of December 30, 2017 increased by $91.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 to $121.5 million.
The increase is primarily attributable to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns for repurchase premium paid in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037 (2037 Convertible Notes) in fiscal year 2014.
The Company’s policy is to include interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities within the provision for income taxes on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.
The Company offers, subject to certain terms and conditions, to indemnify customers and distributors for costs and damages awarded against these parties in the event the Company’s hardware products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights or trademarks, and to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure.
Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.


item2.txt
Net revenues of $631.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 represented an 8% increase from the comparable prior year period of $585.7 million.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased 30% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 versus the comparable prior year period, but the declines from our Core Products partially offset the increase.
Net revenues from Core Products decreased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods.
Stock-based compensation expense increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods.
Our net interest and other income (expense) increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher interest income from the investment portfolio, and to a lesser extent lower interest expenses from 2024 Notes and its related interest rate swap contracts as compared to the total interest expenses recognized from the 2017 Convertible Notes that matured in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increases in the effective tax rates in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods were primarily due to the one-time transition tax of $582.8 million (including state liabilities), a remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate to 21% in the amount of $26.2 million and a release of reserves for uncertain tax positions in fiscal year 2017.
The increases in the effective tax rate were partially offset by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to the portion of U.S. income tax on unremitted foreign earnings that had been accrued through the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $424.3 million.
The net cash provided by operations during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, a decrease in inventory as well as an increase in other accrued liabilities and income tax payable.
As of December 30, 2017, we had $531.5 million of liabilities classified as long-term income taxes payable in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility that, upon certain conditions, may be extended by an additional $150.0 million, and was entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021).


part2.txt
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
Disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
If weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.
We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins.
The foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would in the future be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.


