item1.txt
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance using modified retrospective method during first quarter of fiscal 2020 and resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets of approximately $50.0 million and lease liabilities for operating leases of approximately $50.0 million on March 31, 2019, the beginning of fiscal 2020.
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 49% and 49%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 the percentages of the Company's net revenues from distributors were 56% and 60%, respectively.
No other distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
One end customer accounted for 12% and 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact and also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.
For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
As of September 28, 2019, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $71.1 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the Company has received interest payments as they become due.
The Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds as part of its interest and other income, net.
The change in fair value was a net increase of $4.1 million and $5.6 million for the three months and six months ended September 28, 2019 and resulted in a gain within interest and other income, net for the period.
The change in fair value was a net decrease of $73 thousand and $6.3 million for the three months and six months ended September 29, 2018 and resulted in a loss within interest and other income, net for the period.
In May 2017, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
Changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
As a result of the sale, the Company recorded the net change in fair value of the interest rate swap contracts of $11.7 million in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first six months of fiscal 2020 and the number of options outstanding as of September 28, 2019 were not material.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $32.2 million and $34.3 million, respectively, primarily from RSU vesting.
These excluded options and RSUs were immaterial for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, but could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs. The Company received net proceeds of $495.4 million from issuance of the 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company paid on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and received on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company did not incur any interest expense for the three months ended September 28, 2019 but incurred a net interest expense of $923 thousand for the six months ended September 28, 2019, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income, net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $642 thousand and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income, net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
During the first six months of fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased a total of 4.4 million shares for $477.2 million through a combination of open market and accelerated share repurchase program.
Through open market, the Company repurchased 2.7 million shares of common stock for a total of $277.2 million.
Additionally, the Company entered into a stock repurchase agreement with an independent financial institution to repurchase shares under the 2018 Repurchase Program.
Under the agreement, the Company provided the financial institution with an up-front payment totaling $300.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The financial institution delivered to the Company a certain number of shares based upon the volume weighted-average price, during an averaging period, less a specified discount.
Under this arrangement, the Company received 1.7 million shares of common stock during the first six months of fiscal 2020 for $200.0 million.
Accordingly, the Company received the balance of $100.0 million back from the financial institution during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company recorded a tax benefit of $11.1 million and a tax provision of $9.9 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, representing effective tax rates of (5.2)% and 2.1%, respectively.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $23.4 million and $46.3 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 9.8% and 10.2%, respectively.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and the Company's effective tax rate in all periods presented was primarily due to the beneficial impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions and excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation, which was partially offset by U.S. tax on global intangible low-taxed income.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of September 28, 2019, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by $18.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 to $167.1 million.
The $85.5 million relates to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns (refund claim) for fiscal 2014 for repurchase premium paid in that year in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037.
The Company’s policy is to include interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities within the provision (benefit) for income taxes on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision (benefit) for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.
The Company offers, subject to certain terms and conditions, to indemnify customers and distributors for costs and damages awarded against these parties in the event the Company’s hardware products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights or trademarks, and to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event the Company's hardware products experience epidemic failure.
Geographic revenue information for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased the Company's products.
Total purchase consideration to acquire Solarflare was approximately $400.0 million, including $8.4 million of fair value from the Company's preexisting investment in Solarflare and net of $6.8 million of cash acquired.
The Company incurred $4.2 million of acquisition related costs, which was recorded as operating expenses in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
Additionally, the Company was required to assess the fair value of its preexisting investment in Solarflare and, as a result, recorded an immaterial gain in its condensed consolidated statements of income as part of interest and other income, net.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit risk and financial market conditions.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.


item2.txt
Net revenues from AIT increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.The increases were due primarily to higher sales from the Automotive business, and to a lesser extent from Audio, Video and Broadcast business.
Net revenues from Wired and Wireless increased significantly in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Data Center increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in North America increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Europe decreased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues in Japan decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods.
The 43% and 31% increases in stock-based compensation expense for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods were primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs to remain competitive in employee compensation, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.
The decrease in the effective tax rates in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the same prior year periods was primarily due to an increase in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation and adjustments in the prior year periods to the provisional estimates previously recorded under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA).
Accordingly, we received the balance of $100.0 million back from the financial institution during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.The shares received by us were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.


item3.txt
The net unrealized losses, which approximate the fair market value of the forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.
A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $16.0 million.
In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the value of foreign-currency-denominated cash and investments by less than $15.0 million.


part2.txt
In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Disruption of operations at these foundries and our facilities could cause delays in manufacturing and shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any catastrophic event in these locations would disrupt our operations, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.
We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, future product cost reductions could have impact on our inventory valuation as well as our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit risk which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the market value of our investment portfolio.
The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments.
If we are unable to retain or develop existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results.
Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins.
The foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial condition.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.


