fls.txt



item1.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We achieved a significant milestone on this strategy by recently announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams.
selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We recently released new fundraising benchmarking capabilities in Raisers Edge NXT™ that complement the existing set of SKY Reporting™ tools and leverage Blackbaud's proprietary data, giving our customers the ability to compare their performance in key fundraising metrics against their peers.
Our focus has been on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting.
We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
With the introduction of our cloud solution for faith communities, including the new church management applications, we are now in a position to organically build as an option and not just acquire incremental TAM.
We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.
In 2018, we've been executing a cohesive workplace strategy to better align our organizational objectives with our geographically diverse workforce.
The new facility is also home to the new Blackbaud Innovation Center, a high-tech meeting space where customers, partners, community leaders and influencers across the industry can convene to turn action into impact.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
Restructuring costs incurred to date and expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



