fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.


item1.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.


item2.txt
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The early adopter program for our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities is on track and we expect to soon announce the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We’ve spent a considerable amount of time working with churches to fully understand their processes and workflows to gain additional insight into the capabilities they need to be successful, and we continue to incorporate that feedback to optimize our platform specifically for their needs.
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our sales program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, our focus is on adding additional sales headcount and improving overall productivity.
Our account executives continue to lead with total solution selling by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
We also continue to rapidly advance our existing applications and bring new solutions to market, enabling our sales teams to sell more.
In January 2019, we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology, and we continue to be excited about this business.
Since January, we have moved quickly on back-office integration so we can focus on the opportunity ahead of us, which is significant given the trend in institutions of all sizes focusing on corporate social responsibility.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
We have spent the last several years creating one global sales operating model, which allows us to recruit, hire, train and track the progress of a growing sales team in a way we could not have done in the past.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



