fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.


item2.txt
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Without additional action in the form of another bi-partisan budget agreement to lift the BCA caps, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
In addition, if there were a Continuing Resolution of longer than a few months to begin GFY 2020, the effect of the BCA caps, absent a change in the law, would be to reduce spending levels through sequestration from the levels set for GFY 2019 to much lower levels set in the BCA for GFY 2020.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
Revenues.
Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of Revenues.
Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


