fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840. existing contracts are or contain leases.


item2.txt
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.
In addition to the ongoing threat of shutdowns, future Congresses could choose to reduce overall spending levels or fail to increase the federal debt limit.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
Revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


