fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth.
The restructuring activities consisted of involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities.
$1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively.
The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.


item2.txt
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019.
Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus.
•return of capital in excess of operating needs.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measures” below.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.


