The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.
While the cap increases prevent sequestration under the BCA, Congress has not yet passed any GFY 2020 appropriations measures.
In addition to the ongoing threat of shutdowns, future Congresses could choose to reduce overall spending levels or fail to increase the federal debt limit.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.Item 1.