fls.txt
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.


item1.txt
The impact of changes in tax laws or rates on deferred tax amounts, impairments of non-deductible goodwill, excess benefits from stock-based compensation, and changes in tax reserves resulting from the finalization of tax audits or reviews are examples of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items that are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs.
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual audited consolidated financial statements and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial statements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge.
Shortly thereafter, the SEC staff issued SAB 118, which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA for which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete.
In  January 2018, we made a $3,500,000 payment under our Line of Credit.
Based on these facts, we concluded that we had a triggering event requiring assessment of impairment for certain of our long-lived assets associated with the Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment.
Since the initial payment, the revenues for these products significantly increased and as a result, during the year ended  March 31, 2017 we recorded an additional $450,000 accrual (which was paid in our third quarter ending  December 31, 2016).
Item 1A.
Such amount was recorded as a discrete tax benefit and is included as a component of income tax expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ending  December 31, 2017.
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
For both the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017, 501,000 outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.


item2.txt
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to customer mix.
Since the initial payment, the revenues for these products significantly increased and as a result, during the year ended March 31, 2017 we recorded an additional $450,000 accrual (which was paid in our third quarter ending December 31, 2016).
Due to these two events, we believe that revenues for this segment will now be approximately $2,250,000 to $2,750,000 lower for the year ending March 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2017.
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility and potential equity and debt offerings.
General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to increased personnel, employee moving, acquisition related and amortization expenses, partially offset by decreases in professional services expenses.
Due to continued organic and acquisition related growth, we outgrew the capacity of our current building in Bozeman, Montana and as a result, we built a new facility in the same general area.
As part of this process, we analyzed the remaining inventories associated with these products to determine future usability and reserved against what we believed to be excess or obsolete, resulting in an increase in our inventory reserve of $406,000 (of which $216,000 related to the Cold Chain Monitoring Division).
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Labor costs and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.
General and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to acquisition related and amortization expenses, partially offset by a decrease in personnel expenses.
We estimate that the total costs of the relocation will be $2,100,000 (which is comprised primarily of facility moving expenses, retention bonuses for existing personnel and payroll costs for duplicative personnel during the transition period) of which $725,000 was incurred during the year ended March 31, 2017 and $772,000 was incurred during the nine months ended December 31, 2017, which is reflected in cost of revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations (other than $269,000 which is included in general and administrative).
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
Due to these two events, we believe that revenues for this segment will now be approximately $2,250,000 to $2,750,000 lower for the year ending March 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2017.
Labor costs and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers.


