fls.txt
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those described in Part II, "Item 1A.


item1.txt
“Revenue Recognition.”
We do not have any contract assets.
For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued.
The PSUs had a grant date fair value of $192.99 per share and vest both based on our achievement of specific performance criteria for the three-year period from April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2021, as well as continued service through June 15, 2021.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
We do not have any contract assets.
In August 2016, we announced that we planned to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building.
Item 1A.
The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.
Intersegment revenues are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals.
Mesa Laboratories, Inc.
We do not have any contract assets.


item2.txt
“Income Taxes” within Item 1.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we began to make incremental investments in research and development to enhance existing products.
We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2003.
Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was also significantly impacted by a $3,669 impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets (see Note 3.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Instrument revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by a slower than expected adoption of an updated medical product and the discontinuation of its predecessor product.
We are hopeful that we will have enhanced or new products and services available for sale in the coming year.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Instruments gross margin percentage was flat during the three months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to product and service mix, offset by volume-based efficiencies associated with an increase in revenues.
As of June 30, 2018, our previously-announced move of our Omaha, Traverse City, and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities to our new facility in Bozeman, Montana was complete.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded impairment expense of $13,819 related to goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging Division.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
This plan will continue until the maximum is reached or the plan is terminated by further action of the Board of Directors.


