fls.txt
Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018, and those described from time to time in our subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


item1.txt
Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised.
Additionally, the tax effects of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the events occur.
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks.
Our effective income tax rate (benefit) was 3.9 percent and (16.4) percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we awarded 11,385 performance share units (“PSUs”) that are subject to both service and performance conditions to eligible employees.
The quantity of shares that will be issued upon vesting will range from 0 percent to 400 percent of the targeted number of shares; if the defined minimum targets are not met, then no shares will vest.
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period.
We do not have any contract assets.
Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L. Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief.
Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised.
Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
We have adopted this standard and will continue to evaluate indicators that may give rise to a change in our tax provision as a result of the TCJA.


item2.txt
The terms of any offering, including the type of securities involved, would be established at the time of sale.
We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2003.
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased primarily as a result of increased revenues from a large customer contract with higher than normal discount rates.
Our revenues come from three main sources – hardware, consumables, and services.
We are currently holding our old Bozeman facility for sale, and we expect to be able to sell that building for approximately $2,300 (less broker commissions).
We believe that we have the option to utilize both equity and debt instruments as vehicles for the long-term financing of our investment activities and acquisitions.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
In addition, in June 2018, the SEC declared effective our Universal Shelf Registration Statement which allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, common stock or warrants, or any combination of such securities for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $300,000.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains.
Increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense comprise $477 of the total, and one-time recruiting fees accounted for an additional $112 of the increase.
Increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense comprise $477 of the total, and one-time recruiting fees accounted for an additional $112 of the increase.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
This plan will continue until the maximum is reached or the plan is terminated by further action of the Board of Directors.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


