ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 



Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer (“CEO”) and our chief financial officer (“CFO”), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as of December 29, 2018. Our management, including the CEO and the CFO, has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 29, 2018. The purpose of these controls 





and procedures is to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and our CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 



There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 29, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.



Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls 



A system of internal control over financial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and no control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance. The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect financial statement errors and misstatements. Also, projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 





ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5: OTHER INFORMATION



None.





ITEM 6: EXHIBITS





31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act



31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act



32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (1) 



32.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (1) 





In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL-related information in Exhibit 101 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity indicated.





