Includes restricted cash of $.3 million at both June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 8, 2019 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $29.2 million at June 30, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018.
During the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.4 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company has liability insurance to cover many of these claims.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $4.1 million, or 12%, compared to 2018.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $7.9 million increased $1.1 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $212.0 million increased $4.9 million, or 2%, compared to the same period in 2018.