fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $25.8 million at September 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million and $.2 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company has liability insurance to cover many of these claims.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the The Company does not plan to contribute additional funds to the Plan during the remainder of 2018.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.


item2.txt
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Gross profit for both three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $33.5 million.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $1.4 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2017.
Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $315.5 million increased $34.1 million, or 12.1%, compared to the same period in 2017.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency translation, gross profit increased $13.4 million, or 15.3%, compared to 2017.
We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 15.4% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility.
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $6.0 million, or 15%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.


item3.txt
Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


