fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $24.3 million at March 31, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.1 million of expense to Income before income taxes, respectively.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company has liability insurance to cover many of these claims.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
There were no stock options exercised during either of the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan are fully vested, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.


item2.txt
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Gross profit increased $6.2 million, or 25.2%, compared to 2017, excluding the favorable impact from currency translation.
Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $5.5 million increased $4.0 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The effect of currency translation had immaterial favorable impacts on both operating income and net income of $.1 million.
We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 19.1% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s Statements of Consolidated Income and the percentage of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were favorably affected by $2.7 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.


item3.txt
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


