fls.txt



item1.txt
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 8, 2019 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $28.2 million at March 31, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018.
During the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.3 million and $.2 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company has liability insurance to cover many of these claims.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, no stock options were excluded in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
Refer to Note S, “Business Combinations” for further information regarding additions.
There were no stock options exercised under the 1999 Stock Option Plan during either of the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
As all stock options from the 1999 Stock Option Plan are fully vested, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs).
The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options.


item2.txt
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit decreased $2.8 million, or 9.0%, compared to 2018.
Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.8 million decreased $3.7 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 20.4% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility.
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $2.0 million, or 5%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales.
International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.8 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars.
In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $26.3 million increased $3.3 million, or 14%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a sales volume increase in the energy and special industries products.


item3.txt
Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


