fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Operating results for the three months ended July 1, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 2. identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
On July 1, 2018, the aggregate transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) performance obligations was approximately $65,885, of which, the Company estimates that approximately $45,945 will be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2019, $19,072 in fiscal 2020, $734 in fiscal 2021, $112 in fiscal 2022 and $22 in fiscal 2023.
Amounts representing work completed and not billed to customers represent contract assets and were $28,920 and $24,810 as of July 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
In the following discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, certain financial measures may be considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $513 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $540 million at July 1, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprises a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022 provides us with sufficient liquidity to fund acquisitions and stock repurchase programs.
Net sales increased $48.3 million or 7.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
This increase was the result of a 5% increase in organic volume, a 2% increase in pricing and a 1% increase in foreign currency translation impact.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $37.9 million or 10.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 9% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing.
The EMEA segment’s net sales increased $11.4 million or 5.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 4% increase due to foreign currency translation impact and a 2% increase in pricing.
The Asia segment’s net sales decreased $1.0 million or 1.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 7% decrease in organic volume partially offset by a 4% increase in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% increase in pricing.
Net sales of our reserve power products in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $18.8 million or 6.2% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at July 1, 2018, lead purchased by July 1, 2018 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program.
We estimate that a 10% increase in our cost of lead would have increased our cost of goods sold by approximately $18 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


