fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments except those otherwise described herein) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
The discount rates used to calculate the ROU assets and lease liabilities as of the effective date were based on the remaining lease terms as of the effective date.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
Revenues recognized during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, that were included in the contract liability at the beginning of the quarter, amounted to $4,467 and $1,936, respectively.
Amounts representing work completed and not billed to customers represent contract assets and were $42,520 and $38,778 as of June 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019, respectively.
At June 30, 2019, the right of return asset related to the value of inventory anticipated to be returned from customers was $2,667 and refund liability representing amounts estimated to be refunded to customers was $5,183.
Guidance in Topic 842 is used to evaluate whether the contract has an identified asset; if the Company has the right to obtain substantially all economic benefits from the asset; and if it has the right to direct the use of the underlying asset.
When determining if the Company has the right to obtain substantially all economic benefits from the asset, the Company considers the primary outputs of the identified asset throughout the period of use and determines if it receives greater than 90% of those benefits.
When determining if it has the right to direct the use of an underlying asset, the Company considers if it has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use and if it controls the decision-making rights over the asset.


item2.txt
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
The initial purchase consideration for the acquisition was $750.0 million of which $650.0 million was paid in cash and the balance was settled by issuing 1,177,630 shares of EnerSys common stock.
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $262 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $568 million at June 30, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that consisted of a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022.
The Amended Credit Facility consists of $449.1 million senior secured term loans (the “Amended 2017 Term Loan”), including a CAD 133.0 million ($99.1 million) term loan and a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Amended 2017 Revolver”).
Net sales increased $109.3 million or 16.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $124.6 million or 31.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 39% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 6% decrease in organic volume and a combined 1% decrease in pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
The Asia segment’s net sales decreased $8.0 million or 11.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 8% decrease in organic volume and a 4% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.


item3.txt
Those contracts that result in an asset position at June 30, 2019 are $1.0 million (pre-tax) and the vast majority of these will settle within one year.
This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at June 30, 2019, lead purchased by June 30, 2019 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


