item1.txt
Item 1.
– Contingent consideration is classified as a financing activity pursuant to ASU 2016-15.
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
We adopted this new rule beginning the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and have included our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity with this quarterly filing on Form 10-Q.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
“Revenue Recognition.” 
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions.
Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e. the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations).
Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional.
Impairment Loss on Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we performed an impairment analysis on our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment as the segment’s financial results continued to fall short of expectations.
Specifically, rising commodity costs used in the segment’s principal product have increased over the past nine months, eroding the gross profit margin of the segment.
The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.
We completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, for $2,222 (net of commissions) resulting in a gain of $288, which is recorded in other (income) expense, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2018.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 2,000 RSUs vested, and 1,445 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 25,544 shares of common stock to eligible employees.
Our effective income tax rate was 9.5 percent and (5.3) percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively; and 8.6 percent and (18.0) percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of the state income taxes, share-based payment awards for employees, and the foreign rate differential.
Earnings Per Share 
Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”).
Commitments and Contingencies 
As of December 31, 2018, all long-lived assets are located in the United States except for $5,952, $2,471 and $15,130 which are associated with our French, Canadian, and German subsidiaries, respectively.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings 
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.


item2.txt
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs.
As a result, we performed an impairment test on the reporting segment, and recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues increased 15 percent and six percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of organic revenues growth.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased 29 percent and 26 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of the normalization in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to $1,700 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017; excluding the impact of the reserve in the comparable period, gross margin percentage decreased as a result of timing of orders and unfavorable product mix variations.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to $1,916 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Excluding the impact of the inventory reserve charge in the comparable period, gross profit margin percentage was flat as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels.
Selling expense increased six percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and decreased 17 percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel.
As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight percent and seven percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to eight percent and ten percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth.
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.
General and administrative expenses increased $1,475 during the three months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and higher salary expense.
General and administrative costs increased $3,299 during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
Research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 14 percent and for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, decreased nine percent, due to streamlining the necessary engineers, materials, and supplies required to support existing businesses in the prior year.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we began to make incremental investments in research and development to enhance existing products.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded impairment expense of $3,669 related to goodwill and long-lived assets associated with our Cold Chain Packaging Division.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded impairment expense of $13,819 related to goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging Division.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $3,300 estimated legal settlement expense; see Note 10.
Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $5,418 and $2,424 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation, respectively).
Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was also significantly impacted by a $3,669 impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets (see Note 3.
We also completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, which resulted in a gain of $288.
We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018, September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018.
In January 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2019.


item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings 
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 


