item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements 
Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” 
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We are still assessing the expected impact of the standard on our consolidated balance sheets but it will not significantly impact our consolidated statements of income and cash flows.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We do not have any contract assets.
Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional.
The assets associated with this facility have a carrying value of $1,934 and are presented on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2018 as assets held for sale.
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 15,890 shares of our common stock to eligible employees.
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”).
For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued.
Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised.
Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”).
In February 2018, Dr. James L.
Orrington II filed a purported civil class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging that we sent unsolicited advertisements to telephone facsimile machines in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), as well as analogous state statutes and state consumer protection laws.
The plaintiff seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.
Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L.
Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief.
We intend to vigorously defend both of the aforementioned cases; however, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the outcome of the lawsuits or determine the extent of any potential liability or damages.
In July 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on September 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings 
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.


item2.txt
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions.
We are working on several research and development projects that, if completed, may result in new products for both existing customers and new markets.
Overall revenues increased 11 percent, while organic revenues increased four percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 90 percent, 10 percent, and one percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Cold Chain Monitoring, and Instruments Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of four percent for the SDC Division.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 relative to the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily as a result of a $291 expense in the prior year related to moving costs for the Bozeman facility.
Excluding the impact of the moving costs in the three months ended June 30, 2017, gross margin percentage was essentially flat as compared to the prior year.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains.
Additionally, in the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded an inventory reserve charge of $216.
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased primarily as a result of increased revenues from a large customer contract with higher than normal discount rates.
We expect that our Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage will continue to be substantially lower than the historical results of our other segments due to the nature of these products.
Selling expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 29 percent primarily due to timing in the reduction and replacement of selling personnel.
Selling expense was eight percent of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to 12 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
We plan to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources to further increase organic revenues growth.
General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $743.
Increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense comprise $477 of the total, and one-time recruiting fees accounted for an additional $112 of the increase.
Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 27 percent due to streamlining the necessary engineers and materials and supplies required to support existing businesses.
Other expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 is composed primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Facility.
“Income Taxes” within Item 1.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $1,860 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets).
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings.
Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions.
Future material acquisitions may require that we obtain additional capital, assume third party debt or incur other long-term obligations.
In addition, in June 2018, the SEC declared effective our Universal Shelf Registration Statement which allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, common stock or warrants, or any combination of such securities for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $300,000.
We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018.
In July 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on September 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Item 2.


item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018 based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013.


part2.txt
Part II.
Other Information 
Legal Proceedings 
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


