item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements 
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
Upon adoption, we will include our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity with each quarterly filing on Form 10-Q.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
“Revenue Recognition.” 
Revenue Recognition 
Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e. the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations).
Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional.
Facility Relocation 
The move of those two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and was completed as of June 30, 2018.
In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000.
The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.
Stock-Based Compensation  
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 15,919 shares of our common stock to eligible employees.
The weighted average grant date fair value of the RSUs was $151.54 per share.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, 1,720 RSUs vested, and 185 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we awarded 11,385 performance share units (“PSUs”) that are subject to both service and performance conditions to eligible employees.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 24,940 shares of common stock to eligible employees.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.56 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $143.36 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The NQSOs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years.
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”).
Our effective income tax rate was 23.9 percent and 24.2 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and 8.4 percent and 12.2 percent for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the six months ended September 30, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of share-based payment awards for employees, state income taxes, foreign derived intangible income deduction, and the foreign rate differential.
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive.
Orrington II filed a purported civil class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging that we sent unsolicited advertisements to telephone facsimile machines.
The complaint includes counts alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act, Conversion, Nuisance, and Trespass to Chattels.
The plaintiff seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.
Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L.
Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an expense of $3,300 as an estimate of our potential loss associated with the matter.
The expense is recorded in estimated legal settlement on our condensed consolidated statements of income and a corresponding liability is included in estimated legal liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, all long-lived assets are located in the United States except for $6,203, $6,667 and $15,585 which are associated with our French, Canadian, and German subsidiaries, respectively.
Item 1.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.
Item 1A.


item2.txt
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues decreased six percent and increased two percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The higher-than-usual order rate was not sustained in the second quarter, resulting in organic growth declines for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of $291 and $353 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
Instruments gross margin percentage was flat during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Instruments gross margin percentage increased during the six months ended September 30, 2018 due to favorable product and service mix, as well as a $163 increase in inventory reserve recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of the decision to discontinue the sale of certain instruments products.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains as well as a one-time incremental inventory reserve charge of $216 recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017.
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes related to a large customer contract containing lower-than-standard contractual pricing.
Additionally, we experienced significantly higher costs on certain commodities during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 than in previous periods.
Even if we are successful with this initiative, we expect that our Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage will continue to be substantially lower than the historical results of our other segments due to the nature of these products.
Selling expense for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 21 percent and 26 percent, respectively, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel.
As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was seven percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 10 percent and 11 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth.
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.
General and administrative expenses increased $1,081 during the three months ended September 30, 2018, due primarily to $718 of increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets.
General and administrative costs increased $1,824 during the six months ended September 30, 2018, due primarily to $1,198 of increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $3,300 estimated legal settlement expense; see Note 9.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
Other expense for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 is composed primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Facility, offset by a $288 gain recorded on the sale of our Bozeman facility; see Note 4.
“Facility Relocation” within Item 1.
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings.
Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions.
We also completed the sale of our old Bozeman facility during the period ended September 30, 2018, which resulted in a gain of $288.
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018.
In October 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on December 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 30, 2018.
Item 2.


item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2018 based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings 
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


