fls.txt



item1.txt
Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange under the trading symbol LOGN and the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol LOGI.
In November 2017, the Company also made a small acquisition.
See "Note 2 - Business Acquisitions" for more information.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 26, 2017.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer programs and related breakage when appropriate, sales return reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
It is possible that during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company may identify additional areas which may result in material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, due to stronger net sales across all regions.


item3.txt
We report our results in U.S.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to reasonably assure that this information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.
As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.


