fls.txt



item1.txt
In August 2018, the Company acquired Blue Microphones Holding Corporation.
See "Note 2 - Business Acquisition" for more information.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition.
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for its privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Substantially all revenue recognized by the Company relates to the contracts with customers to sell products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
These products are hardware devices, which may include embedded software, and these functions together are considered as one performance obligation.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.


item3.txt
The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products.


