fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Prior period balances and disclosures have not been restated.
The deferred rent and prepaid rent balances were derecognized as of the date of adoption and no adjustment was made to retained earnings.
Performance-based awards were not included because all necessary conditions have not been satisfied by the end of the respective period, and those shares were not issuable if the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period.
The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees.
Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations.
The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax provision.
Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved.
During fiscal year 2020, the Company continues to review its tax positions and provide for or reverse unrecognized tax benefits as they arise.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
The transaction is subject to various closing conditions and is expected to close in late October 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform.
We expect this trend may continue.


