fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs (Customer Programs) and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Prior period balances and disclosures have not been restated.
Performance-based awards were not included because all necessary conditions have not been satisfied by the end of the respective period, and those shares were not issuable if the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period.
The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees.
Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations.
The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax provision.
Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved.
During fiscal year 2020, the Company continues to review its tax positions and provide for or reverse unrecognized tax benefits as they arise.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.


item2.txt
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Blue Microphones contributed 2 points to the sales growth during the period.
Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 in Asia Pacific were flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform.
We expect this trend may continue.


