fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers, e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605.
As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.
•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018.
Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or service in an amount that reflects the transaction price the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Substantially all revenue recognized by the Company relates to the contracts with customers to sell products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
These products are hardware devices, which may include embedded software.
Revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the products is transferred to the customer which generally occurs upon shipment.
The Company applies the practical expedient of not disclosing the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
Deferred revenue associated with remaining PCS performance obligation is not material as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season.
The Company's contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
Significant management judgment and estimates are used to determine the impact of these programs in any accounting period.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, due to stronger net sales across all regions.


item3.txt
Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process is also lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.


