fls.txt
In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A.


item2.txt
The year to date impact is $29 million when compared to the corresponding nine-month period in 2017.
 Net sales in the Life Sciences segment increased by $8 million, or 4%, and $54 million, or 8%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product categories.
 Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (“the Agency”) under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a potentially responsible party for 15 active hazardous waste sites.
The company does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.
We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income.
 Capital spending totaled $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Corning believes these precious metal assets to be recoverable due to the significant positive cash flow in both segments.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates decreased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $42 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
The net proceeds received in U.S. dollars, after deducting offering expenses, was $596 million.
   (1)    Refer to Note 6 (Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 Net sales of this segment increased by $5 million, or 10%, and $23 million, 17%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, driven primarily by an increase in sales in our emerging businesses.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
 Manufacturing equipment includes certain components of production equipment that are constructed of precious metals, primarily platinum and rhodium.
This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity.
 During 2017, Corning repurchased 84.4 million shares for approximately $2.4 billion through accelerated share repurchase agreements and open market repurchases under the 2016 Repurchase Program.
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
This hedge is designated as a cash flow hedge.
The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%.
Movements in foreign exchange rates were not material when compared to the corresponding three-month period in 2017.
The increase was driven by the sales increase outlined above and improved manufacturing efficiencies.
The Revolving Credit Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants with which Corning must comply, including a leverage (debt to capital ratio) financial covenant.
 On April 26, 2018, Corning’s Board of Directors approved a $2 billion share repurchase program with no expiration (the “2018 Repurchase Program”).
   -    currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, New Taiwan dollar, euro, Chinese yuan and South Korean won;


item3.txt



item4.txt
Corning’s disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Corning in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Corning’s management, including Corning’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or other persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
 Environmental Litigation.
All Rights Reserved.


