fls.txt
Such statements relate to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.


item1.txt
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.


item2.txt
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
The Company’s $2 billion revolving credit facility is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed.
The increase in the net loss in the first quarter of $14 million, or 23%, reflects higher losses in our development projects.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
 Our debt instruments contain customary event of default provisions, which allow the lenders the option of accelerating all obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
 We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Corning had accrued approximately $38 million (undiscounted) for the estimated liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation.
 Net sales in the Environmental Technologies segment increased $47 million, or 17%, in the first quarter of 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
Improvements in manufacturing efficiency partially offset the decline.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.
 Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
 Corning has access to a $2 billion unsecured committed revolving credit facility.
Automotive product sales increased by $22 million, due to market strength in Europe, China and North America, and continued sales growth of gas particulate filters.
   ·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
 Our major source of funding for 2018 and beyond will be our operating cash flow, our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents and proceeds from any issuances of debt.
 We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote.
 Net income in the first quarter of 2018 increased by $8 million, or 18%, driven by the sales increase outlined above and improved manufacturing efficiencies.
 We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
 See “Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for details on core performance measures.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net sales in the amount of $9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
All Rights Reserved.


part2.txt
All Rights Reserved.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.


