fls.txt
 Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, current estimates and forecasts, general economic conditions, its knowledge of its business, and key performance indicators that impact the company, actual results could differ materially.


item1.txt
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.


item2.txt
 Net cash used in investing activities increased by $1,121 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period last year, driven by the cash outflow of $794 million for the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, an increase of $416 million in capital expenditures largely due to capacity expansion projects in our Display Technologies, Optical Communications and Environmental Technologies segments and a decrease of $113 million in realized gains on translated earnings contracts.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
 The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.
The required leverage ratio, which measures debt to total capital, is a maximum of 50%.
   ·    The impact of discrete tax and other tax-related items in the amount of $49 million.
These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures.
Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.
At June 30, 2018, our leverage using this measure was approximately 28%, and, as such, are in compliance with the financial covenant.
The required leverage ratio, which measures debt to total capital, is a maximum of 50%.
 There were no significant items that impacted Corning’s financing structure in the six months ended June 30, 2017.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
We utilize a variety of financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.
 Net income in the Display Technologies segment decreased by $34 million and $94 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The second quarter pricing environment was the most favorable in more than a decade.
   ·    An increase of $13 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
 Capital spending totaled $1,177 million and $761 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted net income in the amounts of $1 million and $5 million when compared to the corresponding three and six-month periods in 2017.
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
Corning has access to a $2 billion unsecured committed revolving credit facility.
We utilize a variety of financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.
 In the second quarter of June 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $6 million, driven largely by the absence of gains in other equity investments.
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
 Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $50 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
 © 2018 Corning Incorporated.
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


