fls.txt
Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of our 2018 Form 10-K, and as may be updated in our Forms 10-Q.


item1.txt
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.


item2.txt
 Refer to Note 8 (Employee Retirement Plans) to the consolidated financial statements.
Second-quarter sequential display glass price declines are expected to be moderate.
   ·    Higher segment net income in all our business segments and All Other segment, up $68 million.
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.
In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument.
 Net sales in the Life Sciences segment increased by $11 million, or 5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Corning utilizes constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and new Taiwan dollar currencies.
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.
   ·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.
 Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased $73 million compared to the prior year, with the increase in display glass volume in the mid-teens in percentage terms due to the ramp of Gen 10.5 capacity expansion in China, more than offsetting moderate display glass price declines.
In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument.
The Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments had net income increases of $23 million and $33 million, respectively.
The Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments had net income increases of $23 million and $33 million, respectively.
 For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
Automotive product sales increased $24 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, due to continued sales growth of gas particulate filters.
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased by 1% when compared to the same period last year.
 There were no significant items that impacted Corning’s financing structure in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Corning had accrued approximately $28 million and $30 million, respectively, for the undiscounted estimated liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation.
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.
 Net income increased by $33 million, or 30%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
We believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund operations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Corning’s disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Corning in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Corning’s management, including Corning’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or other persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
 © 2019 Corning Incorporated.
 Environmental Litigation.


