fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
(a) Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.18 and $0.08 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.35 and $0.15 for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
Revenue derived from maintenance contracts primarily includes telephone consulting, product updates, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement.
Revenue derived from services primarily includes consulting, implementation, and training.
Deferred revenue represents advance payments or billings for software licenses, services, and maintenance billed in advance of the time revenue is recognized.


item2.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
Global growth forecasts for 2018 and 2019 have been revised upward by 0.2 percentage point to 3.9 percent.
The revision reflects increased global growth momentum and the expected impact of the recently approved U.S. tax policy changes.” For the remainder of fiscal 2018, we expect the global economy to improve when compared to the prior year, which could result in an improved selling environment.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our Logility supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The three business segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
In August 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers – Deferral of Effective Date, which defers the implementation of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for one year from the initial effective date.
Therefore, the new standard would require additional disclosures of the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the fiscal year 2019 reporting period.
In assessing the new standard, the Company has completed its review of representative contracts and identification of policy and differences resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption of this update on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The 14% increase in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year was attributable primarily to a 50% increase in license fee revenues and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in services and other revenues and a 5% increase in maintenance revenues.
The increase in license fee revenues was attributable to entering into several license fee agreements during the quarter in our SCM segment, due to an increase in general economic activity and higher overall business information technology spending from the US tax reform.
The primary reason for the increase in services and other revenues in the three months ended January 31, 2018 was an increase in implementation and cloud services in our SCM segment partially offset by a decrease in our IT consulting services due to decreased demand for IT temporary staff.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency In the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% and 20%, respectively, of our revenues outside the United States.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


