fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at October 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract.
Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis.
That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets in accordance with ASC Topic 606.
During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we recognized $14 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of July 31, 2019.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
To forestall such an outcome, policies should decisively aim at defusing trade tensions, reinvigorating multilateral cooperation, and providing timely support to economic activity where needed.
To strengthen resilience, policymakers should address financial vulnerabilities that pose risks to growth in the medium term.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability.
Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained relatively flat attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 48% decrease in license revenues, a 7% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 53% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 24% decrease in license revenues, a 6% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 5% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.


item3.txt
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $0.3 million and $0.4 million exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


