fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced the previous revenue recognition guidance.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
The update noted that, “Global growth for 2018 is estimated at 3.7 percent, as in the October 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO) forecast, despite weaker performance in some economies, notably Europe and Asia.
For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
•Acquisition Risks.
A discussion of a number of additional risk factors associated with our business is included in our Annual Report for fiscal 2018.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, the 10% decrease in revenues over the three months ended January 31, 2018 was attributable primarily to a 71% decrease in license revenues and to a lesser extent a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
International revenues represented approximately 17% and 19% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively and 20% of total revenues in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018.
For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 71% and 56%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $390,000 and $430,000 exchange rate gain or loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


