fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2019, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Therefore, the adjustment to recognize the Company’s leases on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the adoption of the new standard was recorded as of the adoption date and prior periods were not restated.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $0.4 million and 0.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract.
Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis.


item2.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
Since the April World Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the United States further increased tariffs on certain Chinese imports and China retaliated by raising tariffs on a subset of US imports.
Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices.
Investment and demand for consumer durables have been subdued across advanced and emerging market economies as firms and households continue to hold back on long-term spending.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
A discussion of a number of additional risk factors associated with our business is included in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to July 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 41% increase in subscription fees and a 4% increase in license revenues that were partially offset by an 8% decrease in professional fees and other revenues and a 4% decrease in maintenance revenues, when compared to the same period last year.


item3.txt
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $0.4 million exchange rate gain or loss for the three months ended July 31, 2019.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


