item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. The results of operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers. The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed. The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $4 million and $9 million, respectively, and operating expenses decreased $2 million and $11 million, respectively.
Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement. In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments. The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Internal-Use Software. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement. The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. 
For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation.
We generally do not offer rights of return for Enterprise Security products and the distribution channel does not hold inventory. As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant. We offer channel rebates and marketing programs for our Enterprise Security products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. We had reserves for Enterprise Security rebates and marketing programs of $6 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of September 28, 2018, and $6 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018.
We offer various channel and end-user rebates for our Consumer Digital Safety products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. Our reserves for end-user rebates are estimated based on the terms and conditions of the promotional program, actual sales during the promotion, the amount of redemptions received, historical redemption trends by product and by type of promotional program, and the value of the rebate. We record estimated reserves for channel and end-user rebates as an offset to revenue or contract liabilities. We had reserves for Consumer Digital Safety rebates of $10 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of September 28, 2018 and $21 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018. For consumer products that include content updates, rebates are recognized as a ratable offset to revenue or contract liabilities over the term of the subscription.
At contract inception, we assess the products and services promised in the contract to identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are capable of being distinct and are distinct within the context of the contract. Performance obligations that are not both capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract are combined and treated as a single performance obligation in determining the allocation and recognition of revenue. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations, we assess whether the customer can benefit from the products and services on their own or together with other readily available resources, and whether our promise to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. 
As a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, the timing of recognition of certain of our performance obligations has changed. For example, certain term-based licenses with distinct performance obligations have a portion of revenue recognized up front when the software activation keys have been made available for download, whereas these arrangements were previously recognized over time. In addition, allocating the transaction price for perpetual software licenses and support on a relative standalone selling price basis under the new guidance has generally resulted in more revenue allocated to the upfront license compared to the residual method of allocation under the previous guidance. Conversely, certain of our perpetual licenses are not distinct from their accompanying support and maintenance under the new guidance and are now recognized over time.
Sales commissions that are incremental to obtaining a customer contract for which revenue is deferred are accrued and capitalized, and subsequently amortized to sales and marketing expense on a straight-line basis over three years, the expected period of benefit. In arriving at the average period of benefit, we evaluate both qualitative and quantitative factors which include historical customer renewal rates, anticipated renewal periods, and the estimated useful life of the underlying product sold as part of the transaction. Commissions paid on renewals of support and maintenance are not commensurate with the initial commissions paid, and therefore the amortization period of commissions for initial contracts considers the estimated term of specific anticipated renewal contracts over the life of the customer.
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments in privately-held companies without a readily determinable fair value. Prior to March 31, 2018, we accounted for substantially all of these investments at cost less impairment and recognized realized gains or losses from sale or impairment in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 


item2.txt
•Operating income increased $111 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions. 
•Operating income increased $157 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Contract liabilities decreased $357 million compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to a decrease of $169 million in March 30, 2018 balances as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, as well as lower billings versus recognized revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation. Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
Net revenues decreased $65 million primarily due to a $112 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment, primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $47 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions. 


item4.txt



part2.txt
A large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline. Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. If these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee has recently completed its internal investigation. In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC in May 2018. The SEC commenced a formal investigation and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. The completion of the Audit Committee Investigation and filing of delinquent periodic reports will not automatically resolve the SEC investigation. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters. These expenses, the delay in timely filing our periodic reports, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business and financial condition.
As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings” below). Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Several securities class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against us following our announcement on May 10, 2018 of the Audit Committee Investigation, including an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law. No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits. We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits related to our Audit Committee Investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until November 2019, at the earliest. Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues.


