item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. The results of operations for the three months ended June 29, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance. 
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory. In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP. We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using a modified retrospective transition method. The adoption resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment of a $742 million increase to retained earnings. This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020. Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation.
Revenue for our Enterprise Security products is earned from arrangements that can include various combinations of software licenses, cloud services, hardware, support and maintenance, and professional services, which are sold directly to end-users or through a multi-tiered distribution channel. 
We generally do not offer rights of return for Enterprise Security products and the distribution channel does not hold inventory. As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant. We offer channel rebates and marketing programs for our Enterprise Security products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. We had reserves for Enterprise Security rebates and marketing programs of $5 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of June 29, 2018, and $6 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018.
We offer various channel and end-user rebates for our Consumer Digital Safety products. Our estimated reserves for channel volume incentive rebates are based on distributors’ and resellers’ performance compared to the terms and conditions of volume incentive rebate programs, which are typically entered into quarterly. Our reserves for end-user rebates are estimated based on the terms and conditions of the promotional program, actual sales during the promotion, the amount of redemptions received, historical redemption trends by product and by type of promotional program, and the value of the rebate. We record estimated reserves for channel and end-user rebates as an offset to revenue or contract liabilities. We had reserves for Consumer Digital Safety rebates of $11 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of June 29, 2018 and $21 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018. For consumer products that include content updates, rebates are recognized as a ratable offset to revenue or contract liabilities over the term of the subscription.
At contract inception, we assess the products and services promised in the contract to identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are capable of being distinct and are distinct within the context of the contract. Performance obligations that are not both capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract are combined and treated as a single performance obligation in determining the allocation and recognition of revenue. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations, we assess whether the customer can benefit from the products and services on their own or together with other readily available resources, and whether our promise to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. 
As a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, the timing of recognition of certain of our performance obligations has changed. For example, certain term-based licenses with distinct performance obligations have a portion of revenue recognized up front when the software activation keys have been made available for download, whereas these arrangements were previously recognized over time. In addition, allocating the transaction price for perpetual software licenses and support on a relative standalone selling price basis under the new guidance has generally resulted in more revenue allocated to the upfront license compared to the residual method of allocation under the previous guidance. Conversely, certain of our perpetual licenses are not distinct from their accompanying support and maintenance under the new guidance and are now recognized over time.
Sales commissions that are incremental to obtaining a customer contract for which revenue is deferred are accrued and capitalized, and subsequently amortized to sales and marketing expense on a straight-line basis over three years, the expected period of benefit. In arriving at the average period of benefit, we evaluate both qualitative and quantitative factors which include historical customer renewal rates, anticipated renewal periods, and the estimated useful life of the underlying product sold as part of the transaction. Commissions paid on renewals of support and maintenance are not commensurate with the initial commissions paid, and therefore the amortization period of commissions for initial contracts considers the estimated term of specific anticipated renewal contracts over the life of the customer.
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments in privately-held companies without a readily determinable fair value. Prior to March 31, 2018, we accounted for substantially all of these investments at cost less impairment and recognized realized gains or losses from sale or impairment in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Long-term other assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in a privately-held company that had a carrying value of $108 million and $134 million at June 29, 2018 and March 30, 2018, respectively. 
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $26 million during the three months ended June 29, 2018, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. This loss was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation. Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
Sales and marketing expense decreased $47 million primarily due to decreases of approximately $20 million related to our divested WSS and PKI solutions and $12 million in stock-based compensation expense.
Restructuring, transition and other costs increased $8 million primarily due to an increase of $45 million in transition costs primarily consisting of projects costs related to our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems, partially offset by a decrease of $38 million in restructuring costs as our restructuring plan announced in fiscal 2017 was substantially completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about charges related to our restructuring plan.
Non-operating expense, net, decreased by $19 million primarily due to a $32 million decrease in interest expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $26 million loss during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from our equity method investment received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline. Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. If these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. The completion of the Audit Committee Investigation and filing of delinquent periodic reports will not automatically resolve the SEC investigation. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters. These expenses, the delay in timely filing our periodic reports, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business and financial condition. 
As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings” below). Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Several securities class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against us following our announcement on May 10, 2018 of the Audit Committee Investigation, including an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law. No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits. We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits related to our Audit Committee Investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until November 2019, at the earliest. Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in Silicon Valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. Additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could suffer. The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans. As a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company. Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. These risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the acquisitions, divestitures and transitions we have experienced over the last few years.


