item1.txt
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We currently do not have any finance leases. We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities. 
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases. The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets. The standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of operations or statements of cash flows. 
Credit Losses. In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model. Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Internal-Use Software. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement. The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures. 
Our discontinued operations consist of our divested Enterprise Security assets and also includes results of our previously divested Veritas information management business (Veritas). There was no income from Veritas during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019. Revenue from Veritas was $4 million and $9 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018. Income from Veritas, net of taxes was $0 million and $5 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019 was $427 million and $767 million, respectively. The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at June 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $443 million and $766 million, respectively. 
We recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $1 million and $3 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $1 million and $2 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively. There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
Remaining performance obligations represent contracted revenue that has not been recognized, which include contract liabilities and amounts that will be billed and recognized as revenue in future periods. As of October 4, 2019, we had $626 million of remaining performance obligations, which does not include customer deposit liabilities of $390 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 96% as revenue over the next twelve months.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029. Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations. Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance. We elected the practical expedient whereby we record all lease components and the related minimum non-lease components as a single lease component. Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities. Many of our lease terms include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease costs for minimum lease payments for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease agreements do not contain any residual value guarantees. 
For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in DigiCert Parent Inc. (DigiCert) that had a carrying value of $11 million and $32 million at October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, respectively. 
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $34 million and $60 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. This loss was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On or after March 4, 2020, holders of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the notes, in cash, equal to the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes. Therefore, as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the principal amount and associated unamortized discount and issuance costs of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes were classified within Current portion of long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale). On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.
The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations. As a result, the results of our Enterprise Security business were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment. The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security Segment. Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.
Planned business dispositions are presented as discontinued operations when all the criteria described above are met. For those divestitures that qualify as discontinued operations, all comparative periods presented are reclassified in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, the results of operations of a discontinued operation are reclassified to income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for all periods presented. Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from such businesses; general corporate overhead is not allocated to discontinued operations. See Note 3 - Discontinued Operations in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial statements for the carrying value of discontinued operations held for sale assets and liabilities and additional information.
 We define direct customer revenues as revenues from sales of our consumer solutions to direct customers, which we define as those customers who have a direct billing relationship with us. Such customer sources include online acquisition and retention, affiliates, co-marketing, and original contract manufacturer channels. Direct customers exclude customers of our partners and ID Analytics solutions and direct customer revenues excludes partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues. For the three months ended October 4, 2019 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $59 million and $13 million, respectively. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $58 million and $11 million, respectively.
ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure. We monitor APRU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the divestiture of two businesses, two of which comprised substantially whole operating segments. These transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel and changes in our strategic direction. Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult. We have made commitments to Broadcom to provide transition services and certain threat intelligence data as has historically been provided to the Enterprise Security business. We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such transitions and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale. The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology. Broadcom has committed to provide these Engine-Related Services under a transition services agreement in substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner that have been historically provided. As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the Broadcom sale. The resource constraints as a result of our focus on completing the transaction, which included the loss of employees, could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results. Further, our remaining employees may become concerned about the future of our remaining operations and lose focus or seek other employment.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion. The use of proceeds in this manner could impair our future financial growth. 
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan). Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities. We estimate that we will incur total costs of $800 million in connection with the November 2019 Plan of which approximately $350 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months. This initiative could result in disruptions to our operations. Any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention. In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining of our operations. If our operating costs are higher than we expect if the expected proceeds from the sale of under-utilized assets do not meet expectations, or we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber-security experts), sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we may face new and unexpected difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees in connection with the planned relocation of our headquarters outside of the Silicon Valley. In connection with the Broadcom sale, we experienced employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties may continue or increase following its consummation. 
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. For example, we recently announced that Rick Hill, our interim President and CEO is stepping down and will be succeeded by our CFO, Vincent Pilette, and that Samir Kapuria has been named President and Matt Brown has been named interim Chief Financial Officer. Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
and operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected.
Our competitors include software vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and internet service providers (ISPs). Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.


