item1.txt
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”). The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. See Note 6 for more information on the divestiture.
Employee Stock-Based Compensation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions. Prior to adoption, excess tax benefits resulting from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation costs recognized for financial reporting were not recognized until the deduction reduced taxes payable. As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures rather than record the forfeitures as they occur. We adopted the change in recognizing excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method. We also elected to retrospectively apply the change in presentation of excess tax benefits recognized related to stock-based compensation expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from financing activities to operating activities. The cumulative effect of adopting the new accounting guidance was not material.
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed. Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities. Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, 
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (“Fireglass”) and Skycure, Ltd. (“Skycure”). Fireglass provides agentless isolation solutions that prevent ransomware, malware and phishing threats in real-time from reaching user endpoints or the corporate network. With this acquisition, we further strengthened our enterprise security strategy to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform and extended our participation in the Secure Web Gateway and Email protection markets delivered both on premises and in the cloud. Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android. This acquisition extends our endpoint security capabilities. With the addition of Skycure our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform now has visibility into and control over all endpoint devices, including mobile devices, whether corporate owned or bring your own device. The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired.
The preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the two acquisitions described above was based upon preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement within the measurement period (up to one year from the close date). Adjustments to the purchase price allocations may require adjustments to goodwill prospectively. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies.
During the nine months ended December 29, 2017, in addition to the acquisitions mentioned above, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $66 million, net of $1 million cash acquired. Of the aggregate purchase price, $48 million was preliminarily recorded to goodwill. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies. These acquisitions were not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.
The unaudited pro forma financial results combine the historical results of Symantec and Blue Coat for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 and include the effects of pro forma adjustments as if Blue Coat were acquired in the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year. The pro forma results for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 include nonrecurring adjustments to amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, commissions, interest on debt used to finance the acquisition, and acquisition-related transaction costs, as well as the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments.
We determined the estimated fair value of our equity investment with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists and estimates made by management. We utilized a combination of the income approach based on a discounted cash flow method and market approach based on the guideline public company method that focuses on comparing DigiCert to reasonably similar publicly traded companies. The equity interest received is being accounted for under the equity method. We record our interest in the net earnings (loss) of DigiCert based on the most recently available financial statements of DigiCert, which are provided to us on a three month lag, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, in Income (loss) from equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Profits or losses related to intra-entity sales with DigiCert are eliminated until realized by us or DigiCert. Basis differences represent differences between the original fair value of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them. The carrying amount of the investment in equity interest will be adjusted to reflect our interest in net earnings, dividends received and other-than-temporary impairments.
As of the transaction close date, we also had $8 million in cumulative currency translation losses related to subsidiaries that were sold, which was reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to the gain on divestiture. In addition, we incurred direct costs of $8 million, which was netted against the gain on divestiture, and tax expense of $137 million.


item2.txt
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date. The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
•Gross margin increased 2 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to the mix of customer and products, as our higher margin Consumer Digital Safety segment contributed to a larger proportion of the total gross profit.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense. These increases were partially offset by the decreased expenses from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense increased $125 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $79 million in stock-based compensation expense and $23 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
General and administrative expense increased $71 million primarily as a result of increases of $70 million in stock-based compensation expense and $28 million in other compensation and benefits expense, primarily due to the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $34 million in acquisition-related costs due to a lower level of acquisition activities in fiscal 2018.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements. We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities under the restructuring plan. During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we also incurred divestiture costs as a result of the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes. Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $11 million and $75 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the third quarter in fiscal 2018, compared to $19 million and$26 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017. Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $50 million and $195 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $57 million and $71 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs.
Non-operating income (expense), net, increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $658 million gain as a result of our divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
The increase in non-operating income (expense), net, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from our divestiture was partially offset by increased interest expense of $65 million mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017 as well as a foreign currency net loss of $26 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to a net gain of $3 million in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities. Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively. See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations.
Revenue increased $258 million, or 15%, primarily due to the full period impact of the Blue Coat acquisition, partially offset by a decrease of $80 million in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions on October 31, 2017. Revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was also unfavorably affected by our shift to products with ratable revenue recognition as described above. Operating income increased $266 million, or 240%, primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition.
Revenue increased $462 million, or 38%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the same period in fiscal 2017. We were also impacted by the trends related to our Norton products discussed above. Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.


