ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Market Risk



Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. As a company with global operations, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates and interest rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.



Currency Exchange Rates



We report our results in U.S. Dollars. Changes in currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. Dollar can have a material impact on our results when the financial statements of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars. The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar. Certain operations use the Swiss Franc or the local currency of the country as their functional currencies. Accordingly, unrealized currency gains or losses resulting from the translation of net assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies to the U.S. Dollar are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity.



We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk as we transact business in multiple currencies, including exposure related to anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We transact business in over 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to operations are the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, Taiwanese Dollar, British Pound, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso. For the three months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 51% of our sales were in non-U.S. denominated currencies, with 25% of our sales denominated in Euro. The mix of our costs of goods sold and operating expenses by currency are significantly different from the mix of our sales, with a larger portion denominated in U.S. Dollar and less denominated in Euro and other currencies. A strengthening U.S. Dollar has a more unfavorable impact on our sales compared to the favorable impact on our cost of goods sold and operating expenses, resulting in an adverse impact on our operating results. 



We enter into currency forward and swap contracts to reduce the short-term effects of currency fluctuations on certain receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries. These forward contracts generally mature within one month. The gains or losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings based on the changes in fair value. 



If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies at the balance sheet dates, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $10.6 million and $7.8 million as of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019, respectively. The adverse effect as of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $5.1 million and $4.2 million, respectively, from open foreign exchange contracts in place as of such dates.



We enter into​ cash flow hedge​ contracts to ​protect​ against exchange rate exposure​ of ​forecasted inventory purchases. These hedging contracts mature within four months. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold.



If the U.S. dollar weakened against the Euro by 10% as of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019, the amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $8.9 million and $4.1 million lower respectively, as of such dates. The change in the fair value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in cost of goods sold when the hedged inventory purchases are sold. 



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



Not applicable.



