 Item 4.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     



Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 



Except as described below, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 



During the third quarter of 2018, the Company’s U.K. operation transitioned from a legacy operating and financial reporting system to the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system used by our U.S. operations, which resulted in the modification of certain procedures and processes. The system change was undertaken to increase efficiencies as our U.K. operation has grown upon the transition away from using a worldwide distributor for our casino and gaming business to selling directly to end users casino and gaming customers through our U.K. operation. 



 Item 4.   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES     



Not applicable. 



 Item 5.   OTHER INFORMATION     



None.  



Item 6.  EXHIBITS 







SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





