See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. 
Disaggregation of revenue 
Remaining performance obligations 
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of September 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months. 
5. Accrued product warranty liability 
As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities". 
We maintain a credit facility (the “TD Bank Credit Facility”) with TD Bank N.A. (“TD Bank”), which provides for a $20 million revolving credit line. The TD Bank Credit Facility imposes certain quarterly financial covenants on us and restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the creation of other liens. We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019. On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF. Following the waiver, we had borrowings available under the TD Bank Credit Facility of $20 million. 
We ended the third quarter of 2019 with $1.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.2 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding. 
7. Earnings per share 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period, as the inclusion of these stock awards in the computation of diluted earnings would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 326 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 462 thousand and 149 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $672 thousand, which was paid on September 16, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on August 20, 2019. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $665 thousand, or $0.09 per share. Dividends declared and paid totaled $2.0 million, or $0.27 per share for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing. If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating. 
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption. We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019. Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs. We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases. We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases. The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings. 
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives. Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend. The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
We recorded an income tax benefit for the third quarter of 2019 of $143 thousand at an effective tax rate of -59.3 %, compared to an income tax provision during the third quarter of 2018 of $581 thousand at an effective tax rate of 18.4%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $54 thousand at an effective tax rate of -4.3%, compared to an income tax provision during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $1.1 million at an effective tax rate of 19.2%. The effective tax rate for the both the third quarter of 2019 and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was unusually low and a benefit as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) as well as near breakeven pre-tax income in the second and third quarters of 2019. The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2018 or nine months ended September 30, 2018, as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released. 
 Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS      
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U. The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties. We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U. legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U. The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear. The actual effects of Brexit, which may be negative for our business, will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, the final results of the Brexit negotiations and whether the U.K. departs the E.U. with or without a withdrawal agreement. As of September 30, 2019, we do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as only 10% of our total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are attributable to our U.K. operations. However, we cannot predict the direction or outcome Brexit-related matters and negotiations may take, or the impact that Brexit may have on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary. 
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified, and if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report thereon, we could be materially adversely affected. 
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2019 regarding our internal controls over user access to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel. Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights. Additionally, we identified a material weakness in controls over key spreadsheets supporting our accounting records. Specifically, we did not design adequate controls to address the completeness and accuracy of information included in key spreadsheets. As a result of these material weaknesses, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2018. 
