See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are included in "Interest and other income (expense)" in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
3. Accrued product warranty liability 
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities". 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 732 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $663 thousand, which was paid on June 15, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 21, 2018. For the three months ended June 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $1.3 million, or $0.18 per share, and $1.3 million, or $0.17 per share, respectively. 
As of June 30, 2018, we had $104 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods. We expect $28 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2018 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. ASU 2016-02 supersedes the previous leases standard, ASC 840, Leases, and is effective for public entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does have leases for equipment and real property which exceed 12 months and we are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our financial statements.  
ASU No. 2014-09," Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein. This ASU is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies in revenue requirements; providing a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improving comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and providing more useful information to users of financial statements through improved revenue disclosure requirements. Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective approach or modified retrospective approach to adopt the amended guidance. We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach. The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption. 
The Company's revenue recognition method prior to the adoption of ASC 606 can be found under Note 2. Summary of significant accounting policies within the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties). A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time. The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled. We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine. EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component. EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality. The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer. 
Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment. For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit. The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over-time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. 
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation. The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services. In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price. To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach. 
Disaggregation of revenue 
Changes in accounting policies and financial statement impact of adopting ASC 606 
Except for the changes below, we have consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect. The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the consolidated income statement during the first six months of 2018, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2018. 
Costs to Obtain a Contract – Costs to obtain a contract, such as sales commissions, were previously expensed as incurred. The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months. No amounts were capitalized as of the adoption of ASC 606 or as of June 30, 2018. 
Remaining performance obligations 
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of June 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $6.0 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $5.0 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next twelve months, with the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 24 months. 
 Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS     
