ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. From time to time, the Company reviews its disclosure controls and procedures, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that the Company’s systems evolve with its business. There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.





ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



On December 5, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors allowed the Company’s Shareholder Rights Agreement and associated rights to expire in accordance with their terms without renewal. In connection with the adoption of the Shareholder Rights Agreement, the Company had filed Articles of Amendment to its Restated Articles of Organization establishing Series E Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock with the Secretary of State of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, setting forth the rights, powers, and preferences of the Series E Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the rights (the “Preferred Shares”). Effective on April 26, 2019, the Company filed Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Restated Articles of Organization with the Secretary of State of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts eliminating the Preferred Shares and returning them to authorized but undesignated shares of the Company’s preferred stock.





 ITEM 6. EXHIBITS







SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





