fls.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
There was no impact to stockholders’ equity from the adoption.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software and hardware to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
Stock Volatility.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2. second quarter of 2019.


