The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices.
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
Our software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $6.4 million.
Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year.
This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences.
Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year.
Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $8.3 million.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement.
Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement.The impact of a 10% change in fair value of these investments would have been approximately $10.3 million to net income.Filed herewith.