fls.txt
For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of March 31, 2019 were 8.5 years and 4.9%, respectively.
We adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), as of January 1, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, $56.4 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
As of April 22, 2019, the parties jointly submitted 21 of the demands for arbitration to the American Arbitration Association.
Cash paid for amounts included in the present value of operating lease liabilities was $19.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and is included in operating cash flows.
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.
Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of March 31, 2019 were 8.5 years and 4.9%, respectively.
The remaining demands for arbitration have not yet been submitted.
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.


item2.txt
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
We had other income, net of $3.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Investing activities used net cash of $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily related to $7.2 million in capital expenditures and $3.9 million in capitalized software development costs as well as cash paid of $0.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions.
We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows.
We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes.
Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes.
We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
These Senior Notes are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings.
The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments.


item3.txt
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.
At March 31, 2019, we had total variable interest rate debt of approximately $6.2 billion.


item4.txt
These changes included new lease accounting processes to evaluate and account for contracts under the new accounting standard.


part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


