Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to our common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The underlying claim in each is the same as in the above-described Ferguson matter, with the exception that each is an individual claim and not a putative class action.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization.
Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.
Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients.
All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations).
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $13.4 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $7.5 million.
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund our acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.
Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).Share repurchases were made pursuant to our Common Stock Repurchase Program authorized by our Board of Directors on August 8, 2019.