fls.txt



item1.txt
The expected customer relationship period is determined based on average historical customer relationship periods, including expected renewals.
Included in the allocation of the purchase price for the acquisition of DST, the Company recorded i) a net deferred tax liability of $649.5 million related primarily to acquired intangible assets for which amortization will not be deductible for tax purposes and ii) unrecognized tax benefits of $72.3 million.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
The offering included 30,262,250 newly issued shares of common stock sold by the Company (including 3,947,250 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at an offering price to the public of $47.50 per share for which the Company received total net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion.
The Company has no unfunded commitments related to this fund.
In December 2017, the SEC Staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit with a maturity of less than twelve months are included in Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender in the syndicate with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders that exited the syndicate or remained in the syndicate but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%.
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct.
Investments for which the Company elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the table below.
receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made.
In software-enabled services arrangements, the arrangement is a single performance obligation or a stand-ready performance obligation, which in either case is comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer (i.e.
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies.
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues.
Accordingly, as of June 30, 2018, approximately $30.6 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts.


item2.txt
We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations).
The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $234.8 million and $235.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
In 2017, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017 and June 1, 2017, respectively, totaling $25.5 million in the aggregate.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases existing at the time of adoption.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs.
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
On April 16, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction.


item3.txt
We estimate a 10% change in exchange rates on these contracts would result in a $6.3 million change to net (loss) income.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


