fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity.
Equity offering.
We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend.
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.
In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our internal operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.
As a result of our acquisitions of DST in April 2018, CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in October 2017, Conifer Financial Services (“Conifer”) and Wells Fargo’s Global Fund Services business (“GFS”) in December 2016, Citigroup Alternative Investor Services business (“Citigroup AIS”) in March 2016, Advent Software, Inc. (“Advent”) in July 2015 and GlobeOp Financial Services S.A. (“GlobeOp”) in May 2012, a higher percentage of our clients are hedge funds or funds of hedge funds.
We could continue to be negatively impacted by the volatile markets as certain of our fees are tied to the asset bases of our clients.
The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made.
These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products.
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K.
The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.


item2.txt
Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the New Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the New Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”), 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at March 31, 2018 were $74.6 million, an increase of $10.0 million from $64.6 million at December 31, 2017.
The loss on early extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees related to the senior secured credit facility for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment, as well as the new financing fees related to the senior secured credit facility for amounts accounted for as a debt modification.
ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products.
Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.
Fluctuations in the value of assets under our clients’ management could also adversely affect our revenues because pricing in many of our agreements is adjusted based on assets under management.
These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions.
We have substantial operations and a significant number of employees in India and we are therefore subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India.
Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings.
In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a client’s instructions or meet specifications.
We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement.
A computer virus, physical or cyber security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for clients, disruptions to our operations, or damage to important facilities.
We do not control these analysts.


