fls.txt



item1.txt
On June 1, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) for approximately $20.0 million in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction and the assumption of certain liabilities.
Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs will be revised.
The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license.
Software license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring the Company to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.
The term of the maintenance contract is usually one year.
This variability is solely attributed to and resolved as a result of the transfer of these services; these fees are independent of the transfer of past or future goods or services.
Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to the Company’s common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Stock options and SARs representing 4.4 and 5.2 million shares were outstanding for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.
changes in the forecast of pre-tax book income due to increased realized synergies related to the acquisition of DST occurring during the year.
The Company has certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which the Company’s carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The underlying claim in each is the same as in the above-described Ferguson matter, with the exception that each is an individual claim and not a putative class action.
The refinancing of the Prior Credit Agreement was evaluated in accordance with FASB ASC 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting.
The fair value of investments in marketable equity securities and seed capital investments were determined using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Specifically, the excess earnings method was utilized for the customer relationships.


item2.txt
Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,273.0 million at September 30, 2018, an increase of $1,208.3 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017.
Transaction expenses are those costs that are directly related to our acquisition of DST.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.8 million.
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,273.0 million at September 30, 2018, an increase of $1,208.3 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017.
Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $2.3 million.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, other income, net included investments gains and dividend income of $12.1 million and $13.4 million, respectively.


item3.txt
As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense).


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Item 1A.


