MTS Systems Corporation's testing and simulation hardware, software and service solutions help customers accelerate and improve their design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures. Our high-performance sensors provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications. As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.
On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $79,772. We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M. 
On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022. The size of the facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement. 
In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, “the new revenue standard” or “ASC 606”). See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2019. 
ing the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 0.2% and the gross margin rate declined 1.5 percentage points.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.9% primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross profit, partially offset by acquisition-related expenses of $761 and the E2M acquisition inventory fair value adjustment of $445. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 13.2%.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions, an increase in rental income and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. 
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The current year also includes a certain discrete tax benefit of $1,293 related to the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 would have been 17.8% and 17.9%, respectively. Factors that increased the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income provision. These increases were offset by favorable aspects of the Tax Act, such as the decrease in the U.S. income tax rate and provisions incentivizing foreign-derived intangible income.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 29, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate, partially offset by higher income from operations.
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 6.2% primarily driven by the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and growth in service and equipment revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 4.5%. 
Gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily due to favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment. Gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 0.5% and gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points.
The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our reportable segments.
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 2.6% primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector from strength in mobile hydraulics and industrial markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 3.9%.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 3.3% primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 4.4%.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 4.9% primarily driven by lower compensation expense. Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense decreased 4.5%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 2.3% primarily due to increased compensation expense, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, income from operations decreased 0.7%.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in deferred income taxes, partially offset by a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, as well as a decrease in cash used by prepaid expenses and payroll accruals. These were partially offset by an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory purchases, accounts payable payments, billings and advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals.
The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M. 
We had cash and cash equivalents of $70,438 as of December 29, 2018. Of this amount, $6,751 was located in North America, $26,235 in Europe and $37,452 in Asia. Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law. The North American cash balance was primarily invested in bank deposits. The cash balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits. In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings. In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer. Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity. As of December 29, 2018, we held no short-term investments. 
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also 
contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock. As of December 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.
Shareholders' equity decreased by $4,597 during the three months ended December 29, 2018 primarily due to a cumulative effect of accounting change reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of $6,227 related to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Also contributing to the decrease was $5,366 dividends declared and $5,167 other comprehensive loss, partially offset by $10,501 net income and $1,980 stock-based compensation. 
As of December 29, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months. 
The following critical accounting policy has been updated since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
Revenue is recognized either over time as work progresses or at a point-in-time, dependent upon contract-specific terms and the pattern of transfer of control of the product or service to the customer. Contracts with equipment revenue recognized over time use costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Equipment contract costs include materials, component parts, labor and overhead costs. For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract. Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to determine the outcome of future events that may span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. As of December 29, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding 
Capped Calls will automatically settle upon expiration on July 1, 2019. As of December 29, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
