Item 1. Financial Statements 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.      
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 ending on September 29, 2018 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks. 
Revenue Recognition
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised. The new guidance also requires certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases, along with additional key information about leasing arrangements. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The amendment is to be applied using either a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.
Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 
Property and Equipment
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term. Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Intangible Assets
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates. Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. 
Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
Other Financial Instruments
2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.
1 Net fair value of designated hedge derivatives that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks
Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Qualifying gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings. The effective portion of the cash flow hedges represents the change in fair value of the hedge that offsets the change in the functional currency value of the hedged item. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a 
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $47,269 and $29,136, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $43,576 and $24,093 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $1,338, consisting of $94 in assets and $1,432 in liabilities. As of September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $478, consisting of $73 in assets and $551 in liabilities.
The amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was $4 and $5 in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $6 and $7 in the three and six months ended April 1, 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net loss of $1,001. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of March 31, 2018 was 1.9 years.
Interest Rate Swaps
On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $255,000 as of March 31, 2018. The interest rate swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of March 31, 2018 was an asset of $6,925. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $2,113.
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $66,223 and $52,208, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by 
counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $18,150 and $14,762, respectively. As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $235 and a net asset of $77, respectively. 
The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement). ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%. The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per 
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $27,828 and $37,811 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, leaving approximately $92,172 and $82,189, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, commitment fees incurred totaled $77 and $156, respectively. During the three and six months ended April 1, 2017, commitment fees incurred totaled $114 and $215, respectively. 
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the Company's annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiary guarantors. 
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 
Interest Rate Swaps
On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, the annual stock grant occurred in April 2018, April 2017 and December 2015, respectively.
Stock Options
There were no stock options granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017. 
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units
We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, we granted approximately 24 restricted stock units to officers and employees and 2 restricted stock units to employees, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 was $48.61 and $47.73, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period. There were no performance restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 was 5.5%.
The full-year estimated annual effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of discrete items, was 17.3% as of March 31, 2018, as compared to 20.4% as of April 1, 2017. This decrease is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, a blended rate based upon our fiscal year, partially offset by higher income before taxes.
Tangible Equity Units
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.
1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.
Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract will automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the 
applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
Debt Component
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386 or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note will be paid, which in the aggregate will be equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment will constitute a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. 
Earnings Per Common Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted 
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 482 and 629 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. Stock options to acquire 489 and 649 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased Capped Calls. The Capped Calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they are anti-dilutive. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.
Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 
Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors. Test provides testing equipment, systems and services to the ground vehicles, materials and structures sectors. Sensors provides high performance sensors for acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure and force measurement. 
The acquisition of PCB in fiscal year 2016 generated new opportunities to sell between our operating segments. Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results. 
On January 5, 2017, we announced the division of our Test segment into two separate business units, "Materials Test Systems" and "Vehicles and Structures Test Systems." The division of our Test segment will result in us having three operating segments once discrete financial information is made available to our Chief Operating Decision Maker. We will continue to report only the Test and Sensors segments until such time. We continue to evaluate the timing of such implementation.
Fiscal Year 2017 Restructuring
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, in an effort to reduce costs and create economic efficiencies in Sensors, we initiated plans to close our Machida, Japan sales office in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. In the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $16 and $7 of pre-tax severance and related expense. As of March 31, 2018, we have incurred a total of $137 of pre-tax severance and related expense. We expect to incur additional pre-tax severance and related expense of approximately $60. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 
Fiscal Year 2016 Restructuring
During fiscal year 2016, we initiated plans to reduce costs in Sensors by closing our Machida, Japan manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. We recorded no restructuring expenses in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and $381 and $944 in the three and six months ended April 1, 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. The remaining severance and facility closing costs are expected to be paid during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. 
Fiscal Year 2014 Restructuring
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 1A. Risk Factors
