•Overview
•Financial Results
•Critical Accounting Policies
•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
•Other Matters
•Forward-looking Statements
Overview
MTS Systems Corporation is a leading global supplier of high performance test systems and sensors. Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures. Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound. As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
•Expand Test services offerings into our large installed base of Test equipment;
•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles and simulation. 
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world. In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential. 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
an estimate of the impact in our fiscal year 2018 results. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
Restructuring Initiative
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives. These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner in fiscal year 2018. As a result, we recorded $739 and $1,340 of pre-tax restructuring expense in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of restructuring initiatives.
Foreign Currency
Terms
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company," or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Financial Results
Total Company 
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018. 
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB). As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
Revenue
Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by lower Test revenue. Sensors revenue increased $9,595 primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors. Test revenue decreased $8,304 primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 2.0%.
Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation. Test revenue decreased $34,829 primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector. Sensors revenue increased $29,359 primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.2%.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily driven by higher Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by lower Test revenue volume. Gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points primarily due to leverage on 
increased Sensors revenue volume and cost containment measures in Test, partially offset by the lower contribution from product mix and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 1.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.3 percentage points.
Gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by increased Sensors revenue volume and the prior year impact of the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, partially offset by reduced Test revenue volume. Gross margin rate increased 0.6 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by the lower contribution from product mix and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.4% and the gross margin rate declined 0.5 percentage points.
Selling and Marketing Expense
General and Administrative Expense
General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 11.6% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $8,300 and prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,402, partially offset by an increase in professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense increased 3.5%.
Research and Development Expense
Income from Operations
Income from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 declined 2.1% primarily due to the lower gross margin contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume, and continued investment in product development in Sensors, partially offset by leverage on volume growth in Sensors. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 7.9%.
Income from operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 16.7% primarily driven by leverage on volume growth in Sensors, prior year China investigation expenses of $8,980, prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, and prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,955. The increase was partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume, and an increase in professional fees. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 22.8%.
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 decreased primarily due to reduced interest rates on the tranche B term loan facility as a result of the debt repricing completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, lower current year average debt outstanding and current year gains on interest rate swaps.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions. 
Net Income
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate and higher operating expenses, partially offset by increased gross profit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate driven by discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as lower operating expenses and increased gross profit.
Segment Results
Revenue
Selling and Marketing Expense
General and Administrative Expense
General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 7.0% primarily due to increased professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 5.9%.
General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 15.7% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $8,300, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased professional 
Research and Development Expense
Income from Operations
Revenue  
Revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 13.8% and 14.2%, respectively, primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15.3% primarily due to increased revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation. Gross margin rate increased 0.7 percentage points primarily driven by favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 11.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.
Gross profit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 25.1% primarily due to increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by an increase in compensation expense. Gross margin rate increased 4.4 percentage points primarily driven by the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment and favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 10.9% and the gross margin rate increased 0.3 percentage points.
Selling and Marketing Expense
Selling and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 4.4% and 6.9%, respectively, primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of currency translation, increased compensation expense, and increased commission expense on higher revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both years, selling and marketing expense increased 2.8% and 4.8%, respectively.
General and Administrative Expense
Research and Development Expense
Income from Operations 
Income from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 56.8% primarily due to leverage on increased revenue volume, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $577 and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by continued investments in product development. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 34.9%.
Income from operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased 135.9% primarily driven by leverage on increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,975, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,955 and the favorable impact of currency translation. The increase was partially offset by higher compensation and commission expense and investments in product development. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 26.9%.
Operating Activities
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash provided by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory purchases, advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received, unbilled accounts receivable accruals and billings and accounts payable payments. Timing of payroll-related payments also contributed to the decrease in cash provided by operating activities. This decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a decrease in cash used by other assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in income taxes payable, as well as an increase in net income offset by a decrease in deferred income taxes due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act. 
Investing Activities
The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the timing of investments in property and equipment in the current year. 
Financing Activities
We had cash and cash equivalents of $66,403 as of June 30, 2018. Of this amount, $2,722 was located in North America, $24,530 in Europe and $39,151 in Asia. Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law. The North American balance was primarily invested in bank deposits. The balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits. In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings. In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer. Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity. As of June 30, 2018, we held no short-term investments. 
The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for an annual required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on debt instruments.
Shareholders' equity increased by $43,773 during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to $50,568 net income, $3,478 other comprehensive income and $5,366 stock-based compensation, partially offset by $16,034 dividends declared. As of June 30, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months. 
Critical Accounting Policies
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
Other Matters
Dividends
Forward-looking Statements
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Share Purchase Plan
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. As of June 30, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
Capped Calls
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon expiration on July 1, 2019. As of June 30, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
