fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
On October 12, 2018, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Harris”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with L3 Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“L3”), and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Harris and L3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which Merger Sub would merge with and into L3, with L3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (the “L3Harris Merger”).
Shares of L3Harris common stock, which previously traded under ticker symbol “HRS” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) prior to completion of the L3Harris Merger, are traded under ticker symbol “LHX” following completion of the L3Harris Merger.
L3Harris was owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders immediately following the completion of the L3Harris Merger.
See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for additional information related to the L3Harris Merger.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by L3Harris, without an audit, in accordance with GAAP for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $346 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in these Notes for more information regarding the divestiture of the Harris Night Vision business.
Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be a fiscal transition period ending on January 3, 2020 (the “Fiscal Transition Period”).
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K, except as described in “Adoption of New Accounting Standards” below.
See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for ROU assets and lease liabilities assumed as part of the L3Harris Merger.
In accordance with ASC 842, we recognized ROU assets and liabilities in our balance sheet for operating and finance leases under which we are the lessee, except for equipment leases and, as permitted by a practical expedient under ASC 842, leases with a term of 12 months or less.
Equipment leases were not material at September 27, 2019 and June 29, 2019.
We also elected the package of practical expedients permitted under ASC 842 and did not reassess lease classification for existing or expired leases, whether expired or existing contracts contain a lease under the new definition of a lease or whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under ASC 842.
We have some lease payments that are based on an index and changes to the index are treated as variable lease payments and recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.


item2.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and in Note B — Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
See Note X — Business Segment Information in the Notes for further information regarding our business segments, including how we define segment operating income or loss.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of $2.67 billion of revenue (net of intercompany sales eliminations) from L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and organic revenue growth in our Space and Airborne Systems and Communication Systems segments.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations.


item3.txt
There were no material changes during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 with respect to the information appearing in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. At September 27, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards.
consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.


