fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).


item1.txt
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 has been derived from our audited financial statements and reflects the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended (“ASC 606”), as described below under “Adoption of New Accounting Standards.” The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method.
As discussed above, our contracts are often subsequently modified to include changes in specifications, requirements or price.
Therefore, such modifications are accounted for as if they were part of the existing contract, and we may be required to recognize a cumulative catch-up adjustment to revenue at the date of the contract modification.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
These variable amounts are generally awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration primarily using the most likely amount method.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as a bundle with any other products or services).
These performance obligations do not meet any of the three criteria listed above to recognize revenue over time; therefore, we recognize revenue at a point in time, generally when the goods are received and accepted by the customer.
Revenue for our development and production contracts is recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of the performance obligation based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts transfer of control of the asset to the customer.


item2.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.
The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to growth in all three businesses that comprise our Communication Systems segment, including $38 million of higher revenue from Tactical Communications, primarily due to strong readiness demand for U.S. Department of Defense tactical radios, and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications and Night Vision.
The increase in segment gross margin and the decrease in segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily reflected higher volume and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix.
The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $32 million of higher revenue from classified programs, reflecting growth from small satellite and exquisite systems, partially offset by lower revenue from environmental programs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.


