fls.txt



item1.txt
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
In third quarter 2018, we determined that the Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO) for our UK funded pension plan at December 31, 2017 was overstated by approximately GBP 40 million (approximately USD $53 or $43 after-tax).
The error was the result of the plan administrator under reporting benefit payments.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
We generate revenue through the sale of equipment, supplies and maintenance and printing services.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting.


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
The lower population of devices is partly due to the loss of market share for multiple quarters leading up to the ConnectKey launch.
Total equipment revenue of $1.57 billion declined 1.8% including a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018.
We are continuing to monitor developments in this area and will make efforts to mitigate the impact to the extent possible.


item4.txt
Not applicable.
None.


part2.txt
In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program.
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.


