fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Financial Statement.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure.
The Reorganization was subject to the approval of shareholders, which was obtained at the annual shareholders meeting held May 21, 2019.
On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization, pursuant to which Xerox became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings Corporation ("Xerox Holdings").
Each share of Xerox Holdings Series A Preferred Stock has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the shares of Xerox Series B Preferred Stock, with the addition of certain voting rights.
In addition, Xerox Holdings became a guarantor of Xerox’s existing Credit Facility.
The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value.
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
The transfer of employees associated with the HCL arrangement in certain countries is subject to compliance with works council and other employment regulatory requirements in those countries, which may delay the transfer as well as the expected savings from the arrangement.


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It.
These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs and a use of cash for working capital2.
While this impact gradually mitigated during the quarter, it still remains and we recognize that the implementation of our strategic initiatives to transform the company for long-term sustainability (including offering, go-to-market, sales coverage and cost structure changes) will continue to impact our revenues in the near term.
As a result, we now expect our revenues to decline approximately 6% for the year, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, compared to our previous guidance of an approximate 5% decline, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.


item4.txt
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
In response to this arrangement, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the design and operation of its financial control environment.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
c.The DSUs were issued at a deemed purchase price of $32.355 per DSU (aggregate price $613,710), based upon the market value on the date of issuance, in payment of the Annual Director's fees pursuant to Xerox Corporation's 2004 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


