fls.txt



item1.txt
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
These adjustments consist of normal recurring items.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure, pursuant to which Xerox Corporation will become a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company.
The purpose of the Reorganization is to provide the Company with strategic, operational and financial flexibility.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
This realignment included the combination and consolidation of certain sales units to better service customers consistently across the company.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
Effective with the adoption, leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition.


item2.txt
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Total revenue of $2.21 billion for first quarter 2019 declined 9.4% from first quarter 2018, including a 2.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
million and acquisitions of $4 million.
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Xerox Services offerings.
These declines were larger in the U.S. where we recently implemented organizational changes as part of our Project Own It transformation actions.


item4.txt
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
Not applicable.
None.


part2.txt
None.
Not applicable.
None.


