Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
Cisco has completed its preliminary assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered strong revenue growth and solid margins.
We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted routing products within our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial market and to a lesser extent in the enterprise and public sector markets.In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that we would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.