fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
ASC 606 supersedes nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminated industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We have implemented new accounting policies, systems, processes, and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of ASC 606.
ASC 606 primarily impacts our revenue recognition for software arrangements and sales to two-tier distributors.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP).
SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.


item2.txt
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for impact of this adoption on our operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we saw broad-based growth across the business and delivered solid revenue growth, margins and operating cash flow.
Notwithstanding the first quarter fiscal 2019 results, we continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment.
Total gross margin increased by 1.1 percentage points, driven primarily by productivity improvements and the $122 million legal and indemnification settlement charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
General and administrative expenses decreased due to a benefit from the $400 million litigation settlement with Arista.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue.
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.
Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets.
Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors.
All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.


