fls.txt



item1.txt
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
The benefit to basic and diluted earnings per share for the period ending March 31, 2017 was $0.62 and $0.61, respectively, with no transactions impacting the consolidated financial results for the period ending March 31, 2018.
The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow and as a result, prior periods have been reclassified as required.
The company accounts for a contract with a client when it has written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services.
The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as “resellers”) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the company and the reseller is considered the principal for the transaction with the end-user client.
In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue.
· The company’s promise to transfer the product or service to the client is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract (that is, the product or service is distinct within the context of the contract).


item4.txt



part2.txt



