fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $7.1 million and $6.2 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $19.0 million and $17.9 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The revenue amounts reclassified were $0.5 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, nine months ended September 30, 2019 and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
A cross-functional team was established to evaluate the impact of the guidance on the financial instruments portfolio.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs (IDCs) and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.


item4.txt



part2.txt



