fls.txt



item1.txt
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
A cross-functional team was established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and the system, process and policy change requirements and continues to make substantial progress.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
Refer to note 5, “Leases,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable—trade and deferred income—current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.


item4.txt



part2.txt



