item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. 
Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software when it is made available to the customer. Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with post-contract customer support, or PCS. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries. We adopted this guidance on January 29, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months. The FASB also recently provided a practical expedient transition method to adopt the new lease accounting requirements. We are evaluating the impact of adopting the new lease accounting standards on our consolidated financial statements, systems and processes in conjunction with our review of lease agreements. The updates will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. We expect the adoption of this accounting guidance to result in an increase in lease assets and a corresponding increase in lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On January 29, 2018, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard using the modified retrospective method and applied it to contracts that were not completed as of that date. Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as a $7 million increase to opening retained earnings, net of tax. Comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted. The impact of the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 was not significant. 
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized. As of October 28, 2018, the amount of our remaining performance obligations that has not been recognized as revenue was $237 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. This amount excludes the value of remaining performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
The 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2018, or the Convertible Notes, were included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. The Convertible Notes had a dilutive impact on net income per share as our average stock price for the reporting period exceeded the adjusted conversion price of $20.02 per share. The warrants associated with our Convertible Notes, or the Warrants, outstanding were also included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. As of October 28, 2018, there were no warrants outstanding.
We recognized an income tax benefit of $149 million and $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and income tax expense of $58 million and $189 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 13.8% and nominal for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and income tax expense as a percentage of income before tax was 6.5% and 8.9% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively. 
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of U.S. tax reform, and a $138 million reduction in our provisional U.S. tax reform transition tax amount in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, partially offset by a decrease in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation.
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, temporary in nature, and driven primarily by changes in interest rates. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of October 28, 2018 and January 28, 2018.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 21% year over year and increased 2% sequentially. GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 25% from a year earlier and up 4% sequentially, reflecting growth in professional visualization, datacenter, and gaming GPUs. Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially. 
Gaming revenue was $1.76 billion, up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in gaming GPUs, and down 2% sequentially as gaming GPU growth was more than offset by a seasonal decline in SOC modules for Nintendo Switch. Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Turing-based GPUs for desktops and by gaming notebooks based on our Max-Q technology.
We previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2019. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, we returned $1.13 billion to shareholders through a combination of $855 million in share repurchases and $273 million in cash dividends. In November 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.00 billion under our share repurchase program for a total of $7.94 billion available through the end of December 2022. We announced a 7% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.16 per share from $0.15 per share, to be paid with our next quarterly cash dividend on December 21, 2018, to all shareholders of record on November 30, 2018. We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we introduced RAPIDS, an open-source GPU-acceleration platform for data science and machine learning; launched the NVIDIA T4 cloud GPU and NVIDIA TensorRT Hyperscale Inference Platform to deliver advanced acceleration in hyperscale datacenters; launched the NVIDIA RTX Server; released the GeForce RTX series, the first gaming GPUs based on the Turing architecture; and unveiled the Quadro RTX series, which is designed to revolutionize the workflow of designers and artists on the desktop.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we marked the launch of the Summit supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, powered by NVIDIA Volta Tensor Core GPUs; introduced NVIDIA HGX-2, a unified computing platform for both AI and high performance computing; announced that five of the world’s seven fastest supercomputers are powered by NVIDIA GPUs; introduced the NVIDIA HGX-2 platform for both AI and HPC; and launched AIRI Mini with Pure Storage and ONTAP AI with NetApp for implementing and scaling deep learning. We also announced a number of Max-Q GeForce gaming notebook designs offered by major OEMs, enabling high-end performance for thin and light notebooks; disclosed that next-generation NVIDIA G-SYNC HDR displays are being shipped, enabling stutter-free gaming; and announced NVIDIA’s role in VirtualLink, a consortium establishing an industry standard to enable next-gen VR headsets to connect with PCs using a single, high-bandwidth USB Type-C connector. In August 2018, we unveiled our first Turing-based GPUs -- NVIDIA Quadro RTX 8000, RTX 6000 and RTX 5000 -- which we believe will revolutionize the work of millions of designers and artists; and introduced the NVIDIA RTX Server, a ray-tracing global illumination rendering server for render farms.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time. We also unveiled advances to our deep learning computing platform - including NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs with 32GB memory, NVIDIA NVSwitch GPU interconnect fabric, NVIDIA DGX-2, and TensorRT 4, the latest version of the TensorRT AI inference accelerator software. In addition, we announced GPU acceleration for Kubernetes to facilitate enterprise inference deployment on multi-cloud GPU clusters and the Quadro GV100 GPU with RTX technology, making real-time ray tracing possible on professional design and content creation applications.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced that Daimler and Bosch have selected NVIDIA’s DRIVE platform to bring automated and driverless vehicles to city streets, with pilot testing set to begin next year in Silicon Valley. 
GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 25% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to 20% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by initial sales of Turing-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 58%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 28% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by almost 40% driven by lower demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.
GPU business revenue increased by 44% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to over 40% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by initial sales of Turing-based GPUs for desktops, Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 70%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 23% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue increased by almost 20% due primarily to sales of GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Our overall gross margin increased to 60.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 from 59.5% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Our overall gross margin increased to 62.7% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 from 59.1% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018. These increases reflect our continued shift toward higher-value platforms, which more than offset a charge of $57 million we recorded during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to prior architecture components and chips following the sharp fall-off in cryptocurrency mining demand.
Inventory provisions totaled $70 million and $14 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $13 million and $6 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 1.8% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, and a nominal impact for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued 485 thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of $11 million in principal of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock. The counterparty to the Note Hedges may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon this exercise of our option. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.


