item1.txt
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. 
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our intellectual property components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software when it is made available to the customer. Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries. We adopted this guidance on January 29, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
On January 29, 2018, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard using the modified retrospective method and applied it to contracts that were not completed as of that date. Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as an increase to opening retained earnings of $7 million, net of tax. Comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted. The impact of applying the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended April 29, 2018 was not significant. 
The 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2018, or the Convertible Notes, are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.0296 per share. The warrants associated with our Convertible Notes, or the Warrants, outstanding are also included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. As of April 29, 2018, there were no warrants outstanding.
The denominator for diluted net income per share does not include any effect from the convertible note hedge transactions, or the Note Hedges, that we entered into concurrently with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, as its effect would be anti-dilutive. In the event of conversion of the Convertible Notes, the shares delivered to us under the Note Hedges will offset the dilutive effect of the shares that we would issue under the Convertible Notes.
The gross unrealized losses related to fixed income securities were primarily due to changes in interest rates, which we believe are temporary in nature. Currently, we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances.
The increase in gross carrying amount of intangible assets is primarily due to purchases of licensed technology during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $11 million and $15 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of April 29, 2018 is estimated to be $18 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2019, $20 million in fiscal year 2020, $11 million in fiscal year 2021, $3 million in fiscal year 2022, and $3 million in fiscal year 2023 and beyond.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of April 29, 2018 and January 28, 2018.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
As of April 29, 2018, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within twelve months. We expect to realize all gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency forward contracts within the next twelve months.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 77% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially, led by gaming and datacenter. Gaming revenue was up 68% from a year ago and down 1% sequentially. Gaming GPU growth was fueled by demand from gamers playing eSports, momentum of the Battle Royale genre, and AAA cinematic games. Datacenter revenue was $701 million, up 71% from a year ago and up 16% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100, new DGX systems, and HPC design wins. Professional visualization revenue was $251 million, up 22% from a year earlier and down 1% sequentially. OEM sales included $289 million related to GPUs for cryptocurrency mining.
Tegra processor business revenue, which includes SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, was $442 million, up 33% from a year ago and down 2% sequentially. Also included was Automotive revenue of $145 million, which was up 4% from a year earlier and up 10% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies. 
We adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. The impact of adopting the new revenue standard was not significant to our consolidated financial statements in the first quarter.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.29 billion, up 134% from a year earlier and up 21% sequentially. Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.24 billion and $1.98, respectively, up 145% and 151%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins. 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we returned to shareholders $655 million in share repurchases and $91 million in cash dividends. For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time. We also unveiled advances to our deep learning computing platform - including NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs with 32GB memory, NVIDIA NVSwitch GPU interconnect fabric, NVIDIA DGX-2, and TensorRT 4, the latest version of the TensorRT AI inference accelerator software. In addition, we announced GPU acceleration for Kubernetes to facilitate enterprise inference deployment on multi-cloud GPU clusters and the Quadro GV100 GPU with RTX technology, making real-time ray tracing possible on professional design and content creation applications. 
GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 77% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to increased revenue from sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, which increased 70%, reflecting continued strong demand from gamers playing eSports, momentum of the Battle Royale genre, and AAA cinematic games. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 71%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100, new DGX systems, and strong demand for HPC. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 22% due primarily to higher sales in overall desktop workstation products and mid-range mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue increased by over 320% due primarily to strong demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.
Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 33% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of over 85% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and development services, and an increase of 4% in automotive revenue, primarily from infotainment modules, DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements for self-driving cars.
Inventory provision costs totaled $33 million and $3 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $4 million and $13 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin from charges for inventory provision costs and sales of items previously written-off or written-down was a 0.9% unfavorable impact for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and a 0.6% favorable impact for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 25% during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we may enter into structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement.


