item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. 
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our intellectual property components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Our software licenses provide our customers with a right to use the software when it is made available to the customer. Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries. We adopted this guidance on January 29, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months. The FASB also recently provided a practical expedient transition method to adopt the new lease accounting requirements. We are evaluating the impact of adopting the new lease accounting standards on our consolidated financial statements, systems and processes in conjunction with our review of lease agreements. The updates will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. We expect the adoption of this accounting guidance to result in an increase in lease assets and a corresponding increase in lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized. As of July 29, 2018, the amount of our remaining performance obligations that have not been recognized as revenue was $235 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. This amount excludes the value of remaining performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $12 million and $31 million, respectively. Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $10 million and $39 million, respectively. 
The 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2018, or the Convertible Notes, are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.02 per share. The warrants associated with our Convertible Notes, or the Warrants, outstanding are also included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. As of July 29, 2018, there were no warrants outstanding.
We recognized income tax expense of $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and $101 million and $130 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was 6.7% and 5.9%, respectively, and 14.8% and 10.7% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. 
The gross unrealized losses related to fixed income securities were primarily due to changes in interest rates, which we believe are temporary in nature. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances.
The increase in gross carrying amount of intangible assets is due to purchases of licensed technology during the first half of fiscal year 2019. Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $6 million and $17 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $29 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of July 29, 2018 is estimated to be $12 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2019, $20 million in fiscal year 2020, $11 million in fiscal year 2021, $4 million in fiscal year 2022, $3 million in fiscal year 2023, and $1 million in fiscal 2024.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
GPU business revenue was $2.66 billion, up 40% from a year earlier and down 4% sequentially, led by gaming, professional visualization, and datacenter, offsetting a substantial decline in cryptocurrency GPUs. Gaming revenue was $1.80 billion, up 52% from a year ago and up 5% sequentially. Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Professional visualization revenue was $281 million, up 20% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially. Datacenter revenue was $760 million, up 83% from a year ago and up 8% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. OEM and IP revenue was $116 million, down 54% from a year ago and down 70% sequentially, driven by lower demand for GPUs for cryptocurrency mining. Cryptocurrency-related revenue included in OEM was $18 million, and we expect it to be negligible going forward.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded Tegra platforms - was $467 million, up 40% from a year ago and up 6% sequentially. Automotive revenue of $161 million was up 13% from a year earlier and up 11% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies. 
NVIDIA GPUs; introduced the NVIDIA HGX-2 platform for both AI and HPC; and launched AIRI Mini with Pure Storage and ONTAP AI with NetApp for implementing and scaling deep learning. We also announced a number of Max-Q GeForce gaming notebook designs offered by major OEMs, enabling high-end performance for thin and light notebooks; disclosed that next-generation NVIDIA G-SYNC HDR displays are being shipped, enabling stutter-free gaming; and announced NVIDIA’s role in VirtualLink, a consortium establishing an industry standard to enable next-gen VR headsets to connect with PCs using a single, high-bandwidth USB Type-C connector. In August 2018, we unveiled our first Turing-based GPUs -- NVIDIA Quadro RTX 8000, RTX 6000 and RTX 5000 -- which we believe will revolutionize the work of millions of designers and artists; and introduced the NVIDIA RTX Server, a ray-tracing global illumination rendering server for render farms.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time. We also unveiled advances to our deep learning computing platform - including NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs with 32GB memory, NVIDIA NVSwitch GPU interconnect fabric, NVIDIA DGX-2, and TensorRT 4, the latest version of the TensorRT AI inference accelerator software. In addition, we announced GPU acceleration for Kubernetes to facilitate enterprise inference deployment on multi-cloud GPU clusters and the Quadro GV100 GPU with RTX technology, making real-time ray tracing possible on professional design and content creation applications.
GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to 50% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 83%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 20% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by almost 60% driven by lower demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.
GPU business revenue increased by 57% for the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to almost 60% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 77%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 21% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue increased by almost 50% due primarily to sales of GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of over 75% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and development services, and an increase of 13% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 37% for the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of over 80% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and development services, and an increase of 9% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.
Inventory provisions totaled $21 million and $13 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $12 million and $9 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 0.3% and 0.2% for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Inventory provisions totaled $54 million and $16 million for the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $16 million and $22 million for the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 0.6% for the first half of fiscal year 2019 and a favorable impact of 0.2% for the first half of fiscal year 2018.


part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.


