item1.txt
Except for adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet. We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities. We expect to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective transition method beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. While we are still evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not currently believe it will have a material impact upon adoption. 
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the acquisition. The closing of the acquisition is subject to approval by regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million. We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China. Although discussions with the European Union and China regulatory bodies are progressing and closing the acquisition is possible by the end of this calendar year, we believe the closing will likely occur in the early part of calendar 2020. 
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. 
Operating lease expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 was $28 million and $83 million, respectively. Operating lease expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 was $22 million and $58 million, respectively. Short-term and variable lease expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 were not significant. 
As of October 27, 2019, there was $1.95 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense, net of forfeitures. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 1.0 year for ESPP.
We recognized an income tax expense of $60 million and $109 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and an income tax benefit of $149 million and $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively. The income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax was 6.3% and 5.6% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 13.8% and nominal for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of October 27, 2019 and January 27, 2019.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
From a market platforms perspective, Gaming revenue was $1.66 billion, down 6% from a year ago and up 26% sequentially. The year-on-year decrease reflects lower sales of GeForce desktop GPUs from the prior year which included the launch of Turing-based GeForce GPUs, partially offset by growth in GeForce notebook GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms. The sequential increase reflects growth primarily from GeForce desktop and notebook GPUs.
Automotive revenue of $162 million was down 6% from a year earlier and down 22% sequentially. The year-on-year decrease reflects lower revenue from legacy infotainment modules and autonomous vehicle solutions, partially offset by growth in AI cockpit solutions. The sequential decrease reflects a large non-recurring development services agreement closed in the prior quarter.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 63.6%, up 320 basis points from a year earlier and up 380 basis points sequentially. The year-on-year and sequential increases are primarily driven by improved margins on GeForce GPUs for gaming reflecting the sale of previously written-off components and lower component costs. The sequential increase also reflects higher average selling prices for GeForce GPUs.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the acquisition. The closing of the acquisition is subject to approval by 
regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million. We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China. Although discussions with the European Union and China regulatory bodies are progressing and closing the acquisition is possible by the end of this calendar year, we believe the closing will likely occur in the early part of calendar 2020.
In our Data Center platform, we announced NVIDIA's DGX SuperPOD, which provides the AI infrastructure for our autonomous-vehicle development program; set eight records in AI training performance in the latest MLPerf benchmarking tests; and announced support for Arm CPUs, providing a new path to build highly energy-efficient, AI-enabled exascale supercomputers.
In our Data Center platform, we introduced the NVIDIA CUDA-X AI platform for accelerating data science; announced availability of NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs from leading OEMs and Amazon Web Services; partnered with global system builders to create powerful data-science workstations integrating NVIDIA Quadro RTX GPUs and NVIDIA CUDA-X AI; and launched beta access to NVIDIA Quadro Virtual Workstation software in the Alibaba Cloud Marketplace.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Automotive platform, Volvo Group announced that it is using the NVIDIA DRIVE end-to-end autonomous driving platform to train networks in the data center, test them in simulation, and deploy them in self-driving vehicles, targeting freight transport, refuse and recycling collection, public transport, construction, mining, forestry and more.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Automotive platform, we announced that we are partnering with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 8% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in GPUs sold for gaming and Data Center revenue. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 10%, reflecting a decline in shipments of desktop GPUs partially offset by revenue growth in notebook GPUs. Data Center revenue, which includes Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 8%, primarily reflecting a decline in enterprise revenue due to a different mix of products including lower DGX sales, offset by an increase in hyperscale revenue. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6%, primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products.
GPU business revenue decreased by 18% in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in GPUs sold for gaming and Data Center revenue. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 22%, reflecting a decline in shipments of desktop GPUs partially offset by growth in notebook GPUs. Data Center revenue, which includes Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 11%, primarily reflecting a decline in hyperscale revenue partially offset by enterprise revenue growth driven by expanding AI workloads. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 5% due primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 46% primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor GPU sales.


part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, 


