item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet. We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities. The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million. We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the merger.
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. 
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was $28 million and $55 million, respectively. Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was $20 million and $36 million, respectively. Short-term and variable lease expenses for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 were not significant. 
We recognized an income tax expense of $54 million and $48 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was 8.8% and 4.9%, respectively, and 6.7% and 5.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The increase in our effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the amount of earnings subject to United States tax, and a decrease of tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by an increase in the impact of tax benefits from the U.S. federal research tax credit. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the impact of tax benefits from the U.S. federal research tax credit and stock-based compensation.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
From a market-platforms perspective, Gaming revenue was $1.31 billion, down 27% from a year ago and up 24% sequentially. The year-on-year decrease reflects a decline in shipments of gaming desktop GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms, partially offset by growth in gaming notebook GPUs. The sequential increase reflects growth from SOC modules for gaming platforms, gaming notebook GPUs, and GeForce RTX SUPER gaming GPUs.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In the first half of fiscal year 2020, we returned $195 million in quarterly cash dividends. We intend to return the remaining $2.11 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends. We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., or Mellanox, and therefore the intended repurchases may extend into fiscal year 2021.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million. We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the merger.
In our Data Center platform, we announced NVIDIA's DGX SuperPOD, which provides the AI infrastructure for our autonomous-vehicle development program; set eight records in AI training performance in the latest MLPerf benchmarking tests; and announced support for Arm CPUs, providing a new path to build highly energy-efficient, AI-enabled exascale supercomputers.
In our Data Center platform, we introduced the NVIDIA CUDA-X AI platform for accelerating data science; announced availability of NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs from leading OEMs and Amazon Web Services; partnered with global system builders to create powerful data-science workstations integrating NVIDIA Quadro RTX GPUs and NVIDIA CUDA-X AI; and launched beta access to NVIDIA Quadro Virtual Workstation software in the Alibaba Cloud Marketplace.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Automotive platform, we announced that we are partnering with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 21% in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in gaming GPU and Data Center revenue. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 29%, reflecting a decline in shipments of gaming desktop GPUs partially offset by revenue growth in gaming notebook GPUs. Data Center revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 14%, primarily reflecting a decline in hyperscale revenue partially offset by enterprise revenue growth, driven by expanding AI workloads. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 4%, primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 4%, primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor sales.
GPU business revenue decreased by 24% in the first half of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in gaming GPU and Data Center revenue. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 29%, reflecting a decline in shipments of gaming desktop GPUs partially offset by growth in gaming notebook GPUs. Data Center revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 12%, primarily reflecting a decline in hyperscale revenue partially offset by enterprise revenue growth driven by expanding AI workloads. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 5% due primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 58% primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor sales.
Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 2% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. This was driven by an increase of 30% in Automotive revenue primarily 
driven by a development services agreement in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. The growth in Automotive revenue also reflected AI cockpit solutions and other autonomous vehicle development agreements. The increase in Automotive revenue was partially offset by a decline in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms.
Tegra Processor business revenue decreased by 26% for the first half of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019. This was driven by a decline in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by an increase of 23% in Automotive revenue. Growth in Automotive revenue primarily reflects a development services agreement in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, AI cockpit solutions, and other autonomous vehicle development agreements.
Inventory provisions totaled $28 million and $21 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $19 million and $12 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 0.4% and 0.3% for the second quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.


