item1.txt
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception. Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities. The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd, or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The closing of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including the approval by Mellanox shareholders and various regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases. 
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
We recognized an income tax benefit of $5 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and income tax expense of $67 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 1.3% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and income tax expense as a percentage of income before tax was 5.1% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. 
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of earnings subject to United States tax, and an increase in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax credit.
The gross unrealized losses are related to fixed income securities, temporary in nature, and driven primarily by changes in interest rates. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
During the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective. Therefore, there were no gains or losses associated with ineffectiveness.


item2.txt
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $198 million, down 55% from a year ago and down 12% sequentially. The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of SOC modules for gaming platforms.
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $358 million, down 72% from a year earlier and up 22% sequentially. Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were $394 million and $0.64, respectively, both down 68% from a year earlier. The year-on-year decrease reflects lower revenue and gross margin, and higher operating expenses. The sequential decrease reflects U.S. tax reform benefits recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As previously communicated, we intend to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we returned $97 million in quarterly cash dividends. We intend to return the remaining $2.20 billion by the end of fiscal year 2020, through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd, or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The closing of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including the approval by Mellanox shareholders and various regulatory agencies. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
For our professional visualization platform, we announced expanded adoption of NVIDIA RTX ray-tracing technology by top 3D application providers and unveiled the NVIDIA Omniverse open-collaboration platform to simplify creative workflows for content creation.
For our data center platform, we introduced the NVIDIA CUDA-X AI platform for accelerating data science; announced availability of NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs from leading OEMs and Amazon Web Services; partnered with global system builders to create powerful data-science workstations integrating NVIDIA Quadro RTX GPUs and NVIDIA CUDA-X AI; and launched beta access to NVIDIA Quadro Virtual Workstation software in the Alibaba Cloud Marketplace. 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, for the automotive market, we announced that we are partnering with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 27% in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in gaming GPU and data center revenue, as well as the absence of $289 million of revenue from cryptocurrency mining processors. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 28%. Data center revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 10%, primarily reflecting a slowdown in certain hyperscale and enterprise customer purchases, partially offset by growth in inference sales. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 78% primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor sales.
Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue decreased by 55% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This was driven by a decline in shipments of SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was only partially offset by an increase of 14% in automotive revenue, primarily from growth in AI cockpit modules.
Inventory provisions totaled $43 million and $33 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $12 million and $4 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 1.4% and 0.9% for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016. Interest expense was $13 million and $15 million during the first quarters of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factor listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.


