PART II — OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth under “Legal Contingencies” in Note 10 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I, Item 1, “Financial Statements,” is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



For a discussion of our potential risks and uncertainties, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017. There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares and Class X Ordinary Shares



The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and redemptions of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. In connection with the merger of Accenture Holdings plc with and into Accenture plc on March 13, 2018, the Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares held by Accenture Holdings plc shareholders were redeemed.













Purchases and Redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc Ordinary Shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares



The following table provides additional information relating to our purchases and redemptions of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. We believe that the following table and footnotes provide useful information regarding the share purchase and redemption activity of Accenture. Generally, purchases and redemptions of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash and employee forfeitures reduce shares outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share. In connection with the merger of Accenture Holdings plc with and into Accenture plc on March 13, 2018, shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc (other than Accenture plc and Accenture Holdings plc) received one Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc for each share of Accenture Holdings plc that they owned. Accordingly, as of March 13, 2018, there were no longer any ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc outstanding.













ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION







ITEM 6. EXHIBITS







SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.







