fls.txt
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 12 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself.
If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation.
The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer.
For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer.
These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
To date, CDW UK is not seeing significant changes in the buying behavior of its customers even with the uncertainty related to the timing and terms of Brexit.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $350 million, or 10.8%, to $3,606 million, compared to $3,256 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations” below for additional information regarding constant currency Net Sales growth.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, ongoing focus on client refresh drove growth within transactional products and we saw an increase in solution-based sales, led by software.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $125 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Growth was primarily driven by client devices, as well as solutions categories, including software and netcomm products.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $36 million, or 12.2%, between periods.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


