fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2019 and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within the Consolidated Balance Sheets that sum to the total of the same amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $352 million, or 9.7%, to $3,958 million, compared to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
There was one fewer selling day in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, and Net sales on an average daily sales basis increased 11.5%.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $170 million, or 10.9%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 12.6%.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased by $28 million, or 8.5%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Small Business segment Net sales increased 10.3%.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


