fls.txt
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.
Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "CDW" and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
These extended warranties are sold separately and provide the customer with a service in addition to assurance that the product will function as expected.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations.
We monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $294 million, or 7.6%, to $4,186 million, compared to $3,892 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $154 million, or 9.7%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $15 million, or 4.6%, between periods.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $124 million, or 34.0%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
In addition, UK growth was driven in part by increased sales from referrals for US-based customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


