fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
At the lease commencement date, the Company records Operating lease liabilities based on the present value of the future lease payments.
For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets and additional lease liabilities of $81 million as of January 1, 2019, mainly related to operating leases for the Company's real estate portfolio.


item2.txt
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $444 million, or 10.6%, to $4,630 million, compared to $4,186 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $150 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $48 million, or 14.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $205 million, or 12.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Net sales to Healthcare customers increased 13.6% primarily driven by client devices.
The increase in Other was driven by Canada, which includes Scalar.
Gross profit increased $78 million, or 11.2%, to $774 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to $696 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin increased 10 basis points to 16.7% for the three months ended June 30, 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


