item1.txt
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 


item2.txt
We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
Net sales increased 7% for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 4%, 12%, 13%, and 20%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx.
The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment.
Operating income increased 18% in absolute dollars and increased 250 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue growth and gross margin improvement.
The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $3.4 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the British Pound Sterling, within the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.4% against the Euro and strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in gains of $3.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a loss of $0.7 million.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $52.1 million in the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018.
As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019 was $223.7 million compared to $190.3 million for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2018, an increase of $33.4 million.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 5%, 10%, 15%, and 19%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines.
Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx.
Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 12% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Advertising expense was relatively flat in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
Increases in cooperative advertising in the outdoor and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment were generally offset by decreases in cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx.
The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first half of 2018 would have been approximately $9 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $8 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in marine due to leverage of operating costs.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 130 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, slight increase in gross margin, and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The $3.7 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro within the 26-weeks ended June 29, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.2% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $7.4 million while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.6% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $4.1 million.
The $3.5 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.9 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the Euro and 2.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $5.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
The $160.5 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $266.6 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $72.9 million and decreased cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $31.6 million.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 


item4.txt
Exhibits 
Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Exhibits 
Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


