item1.txt
Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Item 1A.
A significant portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, and components for a number of our goods are sourced from suppliers in the People’s Republic of China.
The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to goods imported from Taiwan or the People’s Republic of China, could have substantial adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.


item2.txt
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions, in addition to sales growth across most product lines.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment.
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 110 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix and promotional activity during the third quarter of 2018.
In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix.
The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions and the reduced legal related costs in the year-ago quarter.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions within the marine segment.
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above.
The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The $8.6 million currency gain recognized in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended September 30, 2017.
Net sales increased 9% for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 12%, 20%, 19%, and 20%, respectively, from the year-ago period.
The marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions.
The aviation segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong growth across all product lines.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by growth in wearables.
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period.
The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago period.
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines, and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the write-down of certain product inventories in the first three quarters of 2018.
In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
In the outdoor segment, cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago period.
In the aviation segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago period.
Advertising expense decreased 6% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period.
The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased media advertising spend in the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments, partially offset by increased cooperative advertising within the aviation segment and expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions within the marine segment.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to expenses from recent acquisitions within the marine segment and personnel costs.
Operating income increased 11% in absolute dollars and increased 50 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of strong revenue growth and increased gross margins, partially offset by slightly increased operating expenses as a percent of revenue, as discussed above.
The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018.
This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
The $13.8 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling within the 39-weeks ended September 30, 2017.
The $239.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in cash provided by working capital of $107.1 million (which included an increase of $27.7 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a decrease of $18.7 million in cash paid for inventory, and an increase of $57.1 million in accounts payable) and income taxes payable of $27.8 million.
The $149.7 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $102.4 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $36.6 million.


item4.txt
Item 6.Exhibits  
Exhibit 31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
Item 5.Other Information  
Exhibit 31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


