fls.txt



item1.txt
A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity.
Approximately 58% of our net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry is experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and therefore we expect to see a similar moderation on our semiconductor revenue in the third quarter of 2018.
Long-lived assets located in the United States were $132 million and $125 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.
Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $76 million and $78 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term tax-related accounts.
The reported results for the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 guidance while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).
We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to its service business and certain custom products.
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer.
Installation services are not significant and are usually completed in a short period of time (normally less than two weeks) and therefore, recorded at a point in time when the installation services are completed, rather than over time as they are not material.
We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work performed daily is primarily ratable over time.
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
Contract assets as of January 1 and June 30, 2018 were $3.1 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and included in other current assets.
Once we determine the performance obligations, we then determine the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the method we expect to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled.
We normally receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract.
We have elected to use the practical expedient related to disclosing the remaining performance obligations as of June 30, 2018, as the majority have a duration of less than one year.
Product revenues increased $83.7 million and $192.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year.
These increases were both primarily attributed to increases in net product revenues from our semiconductor customers of $47.8 million and $104.0 million for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The remainder of the increases were attributed to net product revenues from customers in our other advanced markets of $35.9 million and $88.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily from our industrial technologies market.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


