Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure. 
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock. In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends. The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018. No repurchases were made in 2018. In the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we issued $600 million convertible senior notes due 2025. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively. We recognized a loss of $17.3 million due to the early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible senior debentures. 
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense. We repatriated approximately $274.0 million and $450.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively. Substantially all of the amounts repatriated in the second fiscal quarter were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. A portion of the amounts repatriated in the third fiscal quarter were used to eliminate the remaining outstanding balance of the credit facility. The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018. 
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below. In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income. The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast. See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. We continued to experience excellent business conditions in virtually all end-markets in the third fiscal quarter of 2018. Net revenues continued to increase and are significantly higher than the prior year quarter. The key financial metrics continue to be strong even as distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs during the third fiscal quarter. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $781.0 million, compared to $761.0 million and $677.9 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared to $103.1 million, or $0.65 per share for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, and $64.4 million, or $0.41 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017. 
Net revenues for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were $2,258.8 million, compared to $1,925.9 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were $243.3 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, compared to $157.3 million, or $1.01 per diluted share for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter. 
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended September 29, 2018, June 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017 and nine fiscal months ending September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives. We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first nine fiscal months of 2018 and further improved results. Distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs in the third fiscal quarter, which negatively impacted the book-to-bill ratio. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 
Our free cash results for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the payment of the first $14.4 million installment of the U.S. transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
See "Financial Metrics by Segment" below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. 
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the third fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven. 
The book-to-bill ratio in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 was impacted by the normalization of distributor backlog, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, and decreased to 0.95 versus 1.17 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. The book-to-bill ratios in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 0.80 and 1.15, respectively, versus ratios of 1.23 and 1.08, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 
For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $745 million and $785 million and gross margins of 28.0% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the third fiscal quarter. 
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB No. 118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA. SAB No. 118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period". The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740. SAB No. 118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts. 
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts. 
The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. We recorded expense of $0.7 million and benefit of $7.0 million for the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, for such remeasurements. 
We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature. Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price. The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.25% on the principal amount. Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes. The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense. The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments. We repurchased $220.0 million and $69.1 million of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. Our repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures reduced our expected full year 2018 tax rate. While the remaining convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.  
The effects of the various TCJA provisions are all interrelated and the impact of any specific item on our effective tax rate is difficult to isolate. 
Acquisition Activity 
As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 
Cost Management 
We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 
GAAP requires that we identify the "functional currency" of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company's operations generally would have the parent company's currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency 
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. 
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies. The dollar generally was weaker during the first nine fiscal months of 2018 compared to the prior year-to-date period, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year-to-date period. The dollar generally was stronger during the third fiscal quarter compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter. 
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 
Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.  The cost of products sold for the third fiscal quarter of 2018 have been favorably impacted (compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. The cost of products sold for the first nine fiscal months of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted compared to the prior year-to-date period. 
Results of Operations 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 
Gross Profit and Margins 
Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were 30.3%, versus 29.9% and 28.0%, for the comparable prior quarter and prior year period, respectively. Gross profit margins for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were 29.6%, versus 27.3% for the comparable prior year period. The increases are due primarily to increased sales volume. We were able to offset the negative impacts of inflation and negative foreign currency impacts by cost reductions and innovation, and maintain our contributive margin. 
Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below. 
MOSFETs segment net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with the Americas and Europe regions experiencing above average growth. The strong performance of our IC product business in the third fiscal quarter of 2017 results in comparatively lower growth with Asian distributors in the current year periods.  
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products. Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a net increase of average selling prices versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year-to-date period. 
We recently completed major cost reduction activities, which had been ongoing since 2013, to improve the operating results of the MOSFETs segment. See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 versus the prior year periods and slight growth versus the prior fiscal quarter. The increases versus the prior year periods were primarily due to volume growth, especially with distributors in all regions, and higher average selling prices. The positive impacts from a stronger euro also contributed to the growth versus the prior year-to-date period. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter was primarily due to volume growth, especially in the Asia and Americas regions, and higher average selling prices, partially offset by negative impacts from a weaker euro. 
The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products. The net increases in average selling prices are primarily due to a more favorable customer mix. 
Optoelectronic Components 
The Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a slight increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, a slight decrease versus the prior year quarter, and a moderate increase versus the prior year-to-date period. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to increased volume, particularly in the Asia region, partially offset by lower average selling prices and a weaker euro. The decrease versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to lower average selling prices. The increase versus the prior year-to-date period is primarily due to increased volume in Europe and with distributors in the Americas region and positive impacts from a stronger euro, partially offset by declining average selling prices. 
The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has reduced versus prior years, but continues. Average selling prices decreased slightly versus the prior quarter and the prior year-to-date period. 
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period. 
Market demand currently exceeds our capacity for certain product lines. Capital spending projects to expand capacity are underway to meet the increased demand. 
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior fiscal quarter. All regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year periods. The Asia and Americas regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, with the Americas region experiencing the most significant growth. Net revenues in the Europe region decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects. Distribution and the industrial and automotive end markets were the main contributors to the sales growth. 
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods. 
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 
Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017 and in the third fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Other Income (Expense) 
Interest expense for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 increased $2.4 million and $3.9 million versus the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Interest expense for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased by $6.1 million versus the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017. The increases are primarily attributable to the issuance of convertible senior notes due 2025 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. The increases are partially offset by reduced interest expense on the revolving credit facility as a result of using cash repatriated in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance. 
In June 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors. We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million. We recognized a $17.3 million loss on early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible debentures in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Based on our current debt structure, including our expected usage of the revolving credit facility, we expect future interest expense to be approximately $10.4 million per quarter, of which $5.5 million will be payable in cash and the remainder will represent non-cash accretion and amortization of issuance costs. 
†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01. Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 
For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 38.4%, as compared to (5.8)% and 25.1% for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. For the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 22.9%, as compared to 25.6% for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017. Historically, the effective tax rates were generally less than the pre-2018 U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions. With the reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21% beginning January 1, 2018, we expect that our effective tax rate will now be higher than the U.S. statutory rate, excluding unusual transactions. 
The effective tax rate for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 was also significantly impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 in the second fiscal quarter. We recognized a tax benefit of $34.0 million resulting from the extinguishments, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the debentures. See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1 for further information. 
During the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, we recorded tax expense of $0.7 million and tax benefit of $7.0 million, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program. These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated. We repatriated $274 million and $450 million to the U.S. pursuant to this program in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively. As a result of these repatriations, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively. 
During the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $3.5 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period and interest, offset by payments and foreign currency effects. 
We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 16 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 23 years. 
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP. Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 21 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 16 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. 
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations. The payment of these cash taxes was recorded as an operating cash flow and any future cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows. The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. We expect our business to continue to be a reliable generator of free cash, partially offset by such tax payments. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens. 
We maintain a revolving credit facility, first entered into in 2010, which was amended and restated on August 8, 2013, and further amended and restated on December 10, 2015. The credit facility provides an aggregate commitment of $640 million of revolving loans available until December 10, 2020, and we have the ability to request up to $50 million of incremental revolving commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. At December 31, 2017, $150 million was outstanding under our credit facility. We utilized most of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. We utilized a portion of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero. 
The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends to stockholders and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is less than 2.25 to 1. If our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1, the credit facility allows such payments up to $75 million per annum (subject to a cap of $225 million for the term of the facility). The credit facility provides us with significantly more flexibility to execute these transactions, and our ability to utilize some of our foreign-source income for these types of transactions provides even further financial flexibility. 
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio for the third fiscal quarter of 2018, borrowings bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%. The interest rate on our borrowings decreases to LIBOR plus 1.50% if our leverage ratio is less than 1.50 to 1 and increases to LIBOR plus 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1. Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2018, any new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%. 
We also pay a fee, also based on our leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts. The undrawn commitment fee, based on our leverage ratio for the third fiscal quarter of 2018, was 0.35% per annum. Such undrawn commitment fee decreases to 0.30% per annum if our leverage ratio is less than 1.50 to 1 and increases to 0.40% per annum if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1. Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2018, our undrawn commitment fee will be 0.30% per annum. 
The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay and certain subsidiaries. 
The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt). The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article VI of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2015. 
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at September 29, 2018. Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 16.68 to 1 and 1.48 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. 
If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and any amounts then outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 and our convertible notes due 2025 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. 
The balance of our revolving credit facility was $150 million at December 31, 2017. We borrowed $317 million and repaid $467 million on our credit facility during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $165.9 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $314 million during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. 
Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances. The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. Such debentures will remain convertible until December 31, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock. We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility. Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a noncurrent liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. No conversions have occurred to date. The convertible debentures due 2041 are not currently convertible. 
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations. We used some of these repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. 
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts. 
For several years, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. As of September 29, 2018, following these repatriation transactions and the uses of such cash described above, approximately 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by the United States parent company. 
We are continuing to evaluate the future utilization of the remaining repatriated cash. The U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., must fund cash dividends to stockholders (which were increased 26% in the second fiscal quarter of 2018), any stock repurchases, principal and interest payments on our debt instruments, and the TCJA transition tax. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs. 
In October 2018, our Board of Directors authorized us to begin repurchasing certain convertible debt instruments in open market repurchases or through privately negotiated transactions, subject to market and business conditions, legal requirements, and other factors. Such authorization also includes the open market repurchase of an equivalent number of shares issued upon the exercise of the conversion rights by any holder of convertible debentures. Such authorization does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of convertible debt instruments, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at our discretion, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. We expect to fund any repurchases through cash on hand (including repatriated cash), and if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
Although we do not currently have any amounts outstanding on the revolving credit facility, management expects to use the credit facility from time-to-time to meet certain short-term financing needs. We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our revolving credit facility in December 2020. 
We are continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust our financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly. 
We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). 
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts. The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 1.5% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows. 
"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP. This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our financial condition as of September 29, 2018 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 3.7 to 1, as compared to 3.9 as of December 31, 2017. The decrease is primarily due to the decrease in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders' equity was 0.40 to 1 at September 29, 2018, as compared to 0.26 to 1 at December 31, 2017. The increase in the ratio is primarily due to increases in long-term debt after the issuance of the convertible notes due 2025. 
Cash paid for property and equipment for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 was $126.4 million, as compared to $84.8 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017. We expect capital spending of approximately $220 million in 2018. Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan. 
Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $34.3 million and $27.3 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend. We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million. However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors. 
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock. The stock repurchase plan expired on June 1, 2018. We repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to this plan. We did not repurchase any shares of stock in 2018. 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 16, 2018, includes a table of contractual commitments. Except as described below, there were no material changes to these commitments during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. 
We do not participate in nor have we created any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
Dividends 
In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 
 Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds     
