Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world’s largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure. 
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock and, as further described below, reduced dilution risks by repurchasing a portion of our convertible senior debentures. 
In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019. 
During 2018 we reacted quickly to the opportunities created by the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) in December 2017. During 2018 we repatriated approximately $724.0 million of cash to the U.S., net of taxes, and further simplified our balance sheet by refinancing some of our debt. In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we utilized repatriated cash to repurchase additional convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders. As a result of these transactions, we reduced the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042 from $575 million to $36.6 million. We continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million in 2019. 
We continued to re-shape our capital structure in 2019. We replaced our existing credit agreement that was due to expire in December 2020 with a new agreement that will expire June 5, 2024. The new credit facility increases the aggregate commitment of revolving loans from $640 million to $750 million; provides us with the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt; reduces the undrawn commitment fee while maintaining the same borrowing rates; and provides greater operating flexibility, including with respect to intercompany funding and other transactions, to enable us to continue to streamline our complex subsidiary structure. 
We repatriated approximately $73.6 million and $115.2 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $20.5 million and $18.3 million during the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019, respectively. Substantially all of these amounts are being used to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility, to pay the U.S. transition tax, and to fund capital expansion projects. 
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in “Financial Metrics” and “Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources” below. We believe that supply, in general, caught up with market demand in the first fiscal quarter of 2019. The second and third fiscal quarters of 2019 were significantly impacted by a substantial decrease in orders, particularly from distribution customers, as they reduced their inventory. This decrease has negatively impacted almost all key financial metrics, including net revenues. 
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $628.3 million, compared to $685.2 million and $781.0 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $30.0 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to $44.5 million, or $0.31 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019, and $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018. 
Net revenues for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 were $2,058.7 million, compared to $2,258.8 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 were $150.0 million, or $1.03 per diluted share, compared to $243.3 million, or $1.55 per diluted share for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. 
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter. 
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2019, June 29, 2019, and September 29, 2018 and nine fiscal months ending September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 represent the effects of the normalization of demand that we began to experience in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 and has accelerated through the first nine fiscal months of 2019 as supply, in general, caught up with demand, and distributors significantly reduced their orders as they decrease their inventory. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 
Our free cash results were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019 of $20.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively, and $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the installment payments of the U.S. transition tax of $14.8 million and $14.4 million in the second fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 
An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 
See “Financial Metrics by Segment” below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. 
For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2019, we anticipate revenues between $580 million and $620 million and gross margins of 23% to 24% at the exchange rates of the third fiscal quarter of 2019. We anticipate that inventory reductions, particularly by distributors, will continue to have some negative impact on our revenues in the short-term. 
Acquisition Activity 
Cost Management 
We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure. 
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
In the third fiscal quarter of 2019, we announced global cost reduction and management rejuvenation programs as part of our continuous efforts to improve efficiency and operating performance. We incurred restructuring expense of $7.3 million related to this program during the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 
GAAP requires that we identify the “functional currency” of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary’s functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company’s operations generally would have the parent company’s currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency 
We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. 
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies. The dollar generally was stronger during the third fiscal quarter and first nine fiscal months of 2019 compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 
Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. The cost of products sold for the third fiscal quarter and first nine fiscal months of 2019 have been favorably impacted compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. 
Results of Operations 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018. Demand started to decrease in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 and the decrease has accelerated through the third fiscal quarter of 2019 as distributors have significantly reduced orders as they decrease their inventory. The decrease in demand resulted in decreased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 
Gross Profit and Margins 
Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below. 
Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter, significantly versus the prior year quarter, and moderately versus the prior year-to-date period. The decrease versus the prior year-to-date period was partially offset by the significant increase in the first fiscal quarter versus the prior year. The increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods from European and American end customers were offset by the significant decrease from distributor customers in all regions. The decreases in our biggest market, Asian distributors, were partially offset by significant increases in our integrated circuits products. 
Diodes 
Net revenues of our Diodes segment declined significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. Net revenues decreased significantly in all regions and sales channels versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. The decrease was most significant with our distribution customers in Asia. 
Optoelectronic Components 
Net revenues of our Optoelectronic Components segment decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. The decreases were in all regions and sales channels, particularly distributor customers. 
The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has increased as demand remains low. 
Due to the strong business environment throughout 2018, average selling prices increased through the first nine fiscal months of 2018 before starting to decrease consistent with our historical experience in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. This resulted in average selling prices that were slightly lower versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods. 
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period. Net revenues decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods in all regions, except for Americas, which increased versus the prior year-to-date period. The decrease in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods is primarily due to distribution customers. 
Average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods. 
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 
Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the third fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Other Income (Expense) 
For the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019, our effective tax rate was 31.5%, as compared to 36.9% and 38.4% for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. For the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, our effective tax rate was 29.9%, as compared to 22.9% for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. With the reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21% beginning January 1, 2018, we expect that our effective tax rate will now be higher than the U.S. statutory rate, excluding unusual transactions. Historically, the effective tax rates were generally less than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions. Discrete tax items impacted our effective tax rate for each period presented. 
We recorded tax expense of $2.0 million during the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program. These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated. During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019, we repatriated $73.6 million and $115.2 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $20.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively. 
As part of our cash repatriation activity, we settled an intercompany loan, which previously had been accounted for at the historical foreign exchange rate (akin to an equity contribution) because the debtor entity did not have the intent or ability to repay such intercompany loan. Currency translation adjustments were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, and were not included in U.S. GAAP pre-tax income. Our cash repatriation activity resulted in the ability to repay such intercompany loan. Upon settlement of this intercompany loan, the foreign entity realized a taxable gain. Income tax expense for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 and nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 includes tax expense of $7.6 million related to this tax-basis foreign exchange gain. 
The effective tax rate for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 was impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures in the first fiscal quarter of 2019. We recognized a tax benefit of $1.3 million in the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the extinguished debentures.  
During the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $5.5 million on a net basis, principally due to increases for tax positions taken in the current and prior periods and interest, offset by expiration of statutes and payments. 
Income tax expense for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 includes additional tax expense of $13.5 million and $25.5 million, respectively, recognized as a result of additional analysis of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act completed in 2018. 
The Company recognized a tax benefit on the pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of debt in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. The Company also recognized a tax benefit of $34.0 million, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the extinguished debentures. 
We also recorded additional tax expense of $0.7 million and tax benefits of $7.0 million during the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program. We repatriated $274 million and $450 million to the U.S. pursuant to this program in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018. As a result of this repatriation, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.  
We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the last 17 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the last 24 years. 
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP. Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 22 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the last 17 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. 
During 2018, we repatriated approximately $724 million to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $156.8 million related to the repatriations. We repatriated approximately $188.7 million to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $38.8 million related to the repatriations in 2019. The payment of these cash taxes was recorded as an operating cash flow and any future cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows. The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash for the year ended December 31, 2018 and nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019. We expect our business to continue to be a reliable generator of free cash, partially offset by such tax payments. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens. 
In the second fiscal quarter of 2019, we entered into a new credit facility, which provides an aggregate commitment of $750 million of revolving loans available until June 5, 2024. The new credit facility replaces our previous credit agreement that provided for an aggregate commitment of $640 million, and that was scheduled to mature on December 10, 2020. The new credit facility also provides us the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt. At September 28, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under our credit facility. 
The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined “Investments,” which include certain intercompany transactions and acquisitions, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is equal to or less than 2.75 to 1.00. If our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00, such Investments are subject to certain limitations.  
The credit facility also allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is equal to or less than 2.50 to 1.00. If our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00, the credit facility allows such payments up to $100 million per annum (subject to a cap of $300 million for the term of the facility, with up to $25 million of any unused amount of the $100 million per annum base available for use in the next succeeding calendar year).  
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio. Based on our current leverage ratio, any new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%, the same as pursuant to the previous credit agreement. The interest rate on any borrowings increases to LIBOR plus 1.75% if our leverage ratio is between 1.50 to 1 and 2.50 to 1 and further increases to 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1. 
We also pay a commitment fee, also based on its leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts. The undrawn commitment fee, based on Vishay's current leverage ratio, is 0.25% per annum, an improvement of 5 basis points over the previous credit agreement. Such undrawn commitment fee increases to 0.30% per annum if our leverage ratio is between 1.50 to 1 and 2.50 to 1 and further increases to 0.35% per annum if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1.   
The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed solely for use in, or arising solely under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located solely outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries.   
The credit facility also limits or restricts us from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on its respective assets, making investments and acquisitions (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00), making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments (assuming our pro forma leverage ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00), and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios.  
The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 3.00 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt). The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article VI of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed June 5, 2019. 
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at September 28, 2019. Our interest coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 19.29 to 1 and 1.16 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. 
If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and any amounts then outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 and our convertible senior notes due 2025 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. 
We had no amounts outstanding on our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2018. We borrowed $38 million and repaid $38 million on the credit facility during the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019. The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $8.1 million and the highest amount outstanding on our revolving credit facility at a fiscal month end was $28 million during the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019. 
During 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors and repatriated approximately $724 million to the United States. We used substantially all of the proceeds from the issuance and the repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero, to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, and to fund our 2018 repurchases of convertible senior debentures. 
During the first fiscal quarter of 2019, we repurchased $1.0 million, $12.3 million, and the remaining $2.2 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, for $22.7 million. We used cash on hand, primarily repatriated cash, to fund the repurchases. 
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019, we repatriated approximately $73.6 million and $115.2 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $20.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively. Substantially all of these amounts are being used to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, repay the outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility, to pay the US transition tax, and to fund capital expansion projects. 
After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $100 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus has accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We continue to evaluate the timing of the reparation of these remaining amounts, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.  
As of September 28, 2019, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment were held in countries outside of the United States. Our substantially undrawn credit facility provides us with significant operating liquidity in the United States. We expect to fund any future repurchases of convertible debentures, as well as other obligations required to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., including cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments by borrowing under our revolving credit facility. Our U.S. subsidiaries also have operating cash needs. 
Management expects to use the credit facility from time-to-time to meet certain short-term financing needs. We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our new revolving credit facility in June 2024. 
Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances. The convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 and the convertible senior notes due 2025 are not currently convertible. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the any convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock. We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility. No conversions have occurred to date.  
We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). 
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts. The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 0.04% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows. 
"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP. This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
Our financial condition as of September 28, 2019 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 3.5 to 1, as compared to 2.8 to 1 as of December 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the decrease in accounts payable and other accrued expenses. Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders' equity was 0.33 to 1 at September 28, 2019, as compared to 0.36 to 1 at December 31, 2018. The slight decrease in the ratio is primarily due to increased retained earnings. 
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $212.0 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $108.9 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. 
Cash paid for property and equipment for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 was $100.3 million, as compared to $126.4 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018. We expect capital spending of approximately $140 million to $150 million in 2019, which reflects lower short-term market requirements. 
Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $39.7 million and $34.3 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend. On May 8, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.095 per share, representing a 12% increase over the previous quarterly dividend. We expect dividend payments in 2019 to total approximately $53.4 million. However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors. 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on February 15, 2019, includes a table of contractual commitments. There were no material changes to these commitments during the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019. 
Dividends 
In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. Quarterly cash dividends have been paid in each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds     
