fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
As of March 31, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.
Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service.
As of January 1, 2019, total deferred revenue was $113.3 million, and during the three months ended March 31, 2019, $47.8 million of revenue was deferred, `and $53.3 million of revenue was recognized.
As of March 31, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.8 million, and of this amount, $92.5 million will be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $15.3 million is long-term and will be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.


item2.txt
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
•Favorable pricing resulted in a $10.6 million increase in revenues.
The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment.
Gross profit decreased $5.9 million, or 2.5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 due to the decreases in revenues discussed above as well as a $0.7 million increase in the amortization of software development intangible assets.
The aforementioned adverse impacts on gross profit were partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs and purchase accounting effects of acquisitions of $8.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively, as compared to the year ago period.
A decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; favorable currency translation; and productivity improvement initiatives contributed $6.6 million, $1.7 million, and $0.9 million, respectively, to the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses; partially offset by a $5.8 million and $1.3 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from acquisitions and purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, respectively, over the year ago period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



