fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We have made certain reclassifications to the 2017 Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements including for the adoption of ASU 2017-07 and for our segment change with no impact to reported net income in order to conform to the 2018 presentation.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The errors primarily related to recognizing revenue prior to satisfying all of the delivery criteria in one business within our Enterprise segment.
The impact of the errors in the first quarter of 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $6.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
As of and during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
As of April 1, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $2.7 million, and $2.4 million, respectively.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In December 2016, Corning appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
In the event the related service or support period is twelve months or less, we apply the practical expedient and expense the sales commissions when incurred.
The core principle of the ASU is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services.
This adjustment primarily relates to the deferral of costs to obtain a contract that were previously expensed at the beginning of the contract period.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16), which requires recognition of the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.


item2.txt
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase $188.7 million of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 and €143.1 million of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
We paid approximately $7.1 million of fees related to issuing the 2028 notes, and recognized a $20.0 million loss on debt extinguishment for premiums paid to the bond holders to retire the 2024 and 2023 notes and for the unamortized debt issuance costs that we wrote-off.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for the three month period ended April 1, 2018.


part2.txt
PPC Broadband, Inc. v. Corning Optical Communications RF, LLC - On July 5, 2011, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (“PPC”), filed an action for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (“Corning”).


