fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas, and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
The errors primarily related to recognizing revenue prior to satisfying all of the delivery criteria in one business within our Enterprise segment.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $10.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the six months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $16.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
As of July 1, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.2 million, $2.4 million, and $2.3 million, respectively.
The complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In December 2016, Corning appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.


item2.txt
For both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, approximately 49% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We did not record any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter in the second quarter but will record the cash received as a gain in our third quarter financial statements.
However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.
Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business, including certain updates since previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 13, 2018.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.
For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.


