ITEM 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as “believe,” “estimated,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “aim,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “continue,” and other future-oriented terms.
The identification of certain statements as “forward-looking” does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking.
Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, international sales, revenue (actual and/or deferred) and operating expenses generally; management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products and services, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers’ business plans or demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, increases in our customers’ proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; the impact of U.S. tax reform, our estimated annual tax rate and the factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; the success of joint development and collaboration relationships with customers, suppliers, or others; outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; our leadership and competency, and their ability to facilitate innovation; our ability to continue to, including the underlying factors that, create sustainable differentiation; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax benefits or liabilities, and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures).
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading “Risk Factors” within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 25, 2017 (our “2017 Form 10-K”), our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended September 24, 2017 and December 24, 2017, and our current reports on Form 8-K.
Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations
For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, and the related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2017 Form 10-K.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory (“NVM”), DRAM memory, and logic devices.
We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps.
Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale.
Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from cloud computing, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors.
At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional two-dimensional scaling.
These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical scaling strategies like 3D architectures as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks.
During the most recent quarter, demand for our products increased primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers.
Over the longer term, technology inflections in our industry, including NVM, multiple patterning, FinFET and advanced packaging have led to an increase in the served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and single-wafer clean.
We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and we continue to gain market share.
We acquired the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc., a privately-held company, on August 28, 2017, as further discussed in Note 15 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The results of the acquired business are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the March 2018 quarter, revenue increased compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2018 quarter decreased as compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily due to customer and product mix.
Operating expenses in the March 2018 quarter increased compared to the December 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee compensation and supplies.
The December 2017 quarter results were negatively impacted by a one-time provisional charge associated with the U.S. tax reform legislation enacted during the quarter.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased to $6.7 billion as of March 25, 2018, compared to $6.0 billion as of December 24, 2017.
Cash generated by operations of approximately $1.1 billion during the March 2018 quarter was offset by $80 million of net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $80 million of dividends paid to stockholders, $49 million of capital expenditures, and $29 million of net repayments of debt.
Employee headcount as of March 25, 2018, was approximately 10,600.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Shipments
Shipments for the March 2018 quarter increased 19% from the December 2017 quarter and increased 30% from the March 2017 quarter levels, reflecting timing of customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
The increase in the March 2018 quarter from the March 2017 quarter was mainly driven by investments from our memory customers.
Revenue
Revenue for the March 2018 quarter increased 12% and 34% from the December 2017 and March 2017 quarters, respectively, and increased 40% in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017, reflecting stronger customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Our deferred revenue balance at March 25, 2018 remained steady to the balance as of December 24, 2017, at $1.1 billion, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition.
Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance.
Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance.
The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $526 million as of March 25, 2018, and $289 million as of December 24, 2017.
Gross Margin
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased in the March 2018 quarter compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily due to changes in customer and product mix.
The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2018 quarter compared to the March 2017 quarter as well as during the nine months ended March 25, 2018 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 is primarily due to favorable customer and product mix, offset by higher factory cost.
Research and Development
Selling, General, and Administrative
Other Expense, Net
Interest income increased in the March 2018 quarter compared to the March 2017 quarter as a result of higher yield and balances.
Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 2017 as a result of an increase in yield and higher cash balances.
Interest expense decreased in the nine months ended March 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 2017 due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter.
Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures.
The loss on impairment of investments in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 resulted from a decision to sell selected investments held in foreign jurisdictions in conjunction with our cash repatriation strategy following the U.S. tax reform enacted in December 2017.
Loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended March 26, 2017 related to the special mandatory redemption of our 2023 and 2026 Notes, as well as, the termination of the Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement following the Termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA–Tencor.
Other, net was lower during the March 2018 quarter, compared to the December 2017 quarter, primarily due to equity investment gains during the March 2018 quarter.
Income Tax Expense
The below discussion around the provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are significantly impacted by U.S. tax reform.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 24, 2017 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three months ended December 24, 2017.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 26, 2017 was primarily due to recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits from lapse of statutes of limitation related to a prior business combination in the three months ended March 26, 2017.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 26, 2017 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States.
Additionally, the impact of U.S. tax reform is being evaluated for how it will affect future years’ tax expense due to tax reform provisions that we will potentially be subject to beginning in fiscal year 2019.
Tax reform provisions being evaluated impacting future years include GILTI and other provisions.
Please refer to Note 6 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Form 10-K for additional information.
Uncertain Tax Positions
We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis.
This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity.
Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
•the recognition and valuation of revenue from multiple-element arrangements, which impacts revenue;
•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin;
•the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin;
•the valuation of equity-based compensation expense, including forfeiture estimates, which impacts both gross margin and operating expenses;
•the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and
•the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization.
We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position.
Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach.
Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment.
Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit.
In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units.
Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present.
If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value.
If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values.
Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods.
We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value.
The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset.
Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2, “Recent Accounting Pronouncements,” of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this report.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $6.7 billion at March 25, 2018 compared to $6.3 billion as of June 25, 2017.
Approximately $5.9 billion and $4.8 billion of our total cash and investments as of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017, respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. dollars.
U.S. taxes have already been provided for due to U.S. tax reform as discussed in Note 5 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided from investing activities during the nine months ended March 25, 2018, was $1.5 billion, primarily consisting of net sales of available-for-sale securities of $1.8 billion, partially offset by capital expenditures of $193.8 million, and business acquisition of $115.7 million.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used for financing activities during the nine months ended March 25, 2018, was $1.1 billion, primarily consisting of $1.3 billion in treasury stock repurchases, $577.4 million of cash paid for debt extinguishment, and $225.6 million of dividends paid, partially offset by $998.0 million of net short-term borrowings and $40.7 million of stock issuance and treasury stock reissuances associated with our employee stock-based compensation plans.
Liquidity
Under certain circumstances, our Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of our Common Stock.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018, approximately $574.2 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through April 24, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $6 million principal value of 2041 Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending June 24, 2018, and all remaining 2018 Notes mature within the quarter ended June 24, 2018.
We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
On October 13, 2017, we entered into Amendment No.
2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2nd Amendment”), among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, which amends the Company’s Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”).
Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million under the Credit Agreement to $1.25 billion under the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Amended Credit Agreement also modifies the date of maturity of the revolving credit facility from November 10, 2020 to October 13, 2022.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
Other than as disclosed in this paragraph, the material terms of the Amended Credit Agreement are substantially the same as the Credit Agreement.
On November 13, 2017, we established a commercial paper program under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1.25 billion.
Individual maturities may vary, but cannot not exceed 397 days from the date of issue.
The net proceeds from the CP Program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of our Common Stock from time to time and under our stock repurchase program.
If at any time, funds are not available under favorable terms under CP Program, we may utilize the Amended Credit Agreement for funding.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991.3 million, has been recognized associated with the recent U.S. tax reform.
This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended December 24, 2017 and March 25, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
The one-time transition tax may be elected to be paid over a period of eight years.
The Company intends to make this election, and anticipates 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.
In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services.
While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities.
We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives.
However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Repurchases of Company Shares
In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock.
The new authorization increases the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases will be funded using our on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Executed in December Quarter
On November 20, 2017, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the " November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
We took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions occurred on February 1, 2018 and February 2, 2018.
Approximately 1,019,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $189.03 for the transaction period.
Final settlement for the remaining transactions will be completed no later than May 24, 2018.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Settled in Fiscal Year
On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
We took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
