ITEM 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as “believe,” “estimated,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “aim,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “continue,” and other future-oriented terms.
The identification of certain statements as “forward-looking” does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking.
Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, international sales, revenue and operating expenses generally; management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products and services, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers’ business plans on demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, increases in our customers’ proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; the impact of U.S. tax reform, our estimated annual tax rate and the factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; the success of joint development and collaboration relationships with customers, suppliers, or others; outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; our leadership and competency, and their ability to facilitate innovation; our ability to continue to, including the underlying factors that, create sustainable differentiation; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax benefits or liabilities, and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures).
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading “Risk Factors” within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 25, 2017 (our “2017 Form 10-K”), our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 24, 2017, and our current reports on Form 8-K.
Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations

For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, and the related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2017 Form 10-K.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company.
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory (“NVM”), DRAM memory, and logic devices.
We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps.
Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale.
Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
Demand from cloud computing, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors.
At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional two-dimensional scaling.
These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical scaling strategies like 3D architectures as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks.
During the most recent quarter, demand for our products increased primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers.
Technology inflections in our industry, including NVM, multiple patterning, FinFET and advanced packaging have led to an increase in the served addressable market for our products in deposition, etch, single-wafer clean, and customer service business.
We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share.
We acquired the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc., a privately-held company, on August 28, 2017, as further discussed in Note 15 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The results of the acquired business are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the December 2017 quarter, revenue increased compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix.
Operating expenses in the December 2017 quarter increased compared to the September 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee headcount and outside services.
The December 2017 quarter results were negatively impacted by a one-time provisional charge associated with the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $6.0 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $6.4 billion as of September 24, 2017.
Cash generated by operations was approximately $29 million during the December 2017 quarter.
We used cash during the December 2017 quarter for approximately $1.1 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $206 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities, $85 million of capital expenditures, and $73 million of dividends paid to our stockholders; offset 

by approximately $799 million of net proceeds on short-term borrowings.
Employee headcount as of December 24, 2017, was approximately 10,200.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Shipments


Shipments for the December 2017 quarter increased 11% from the September 2017 quarter and increased 37% from the December 2016 quarter levels, reflecting timing of customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
The increase in the December 2017 quarter from the December 2016 quarter was mainly driven by investments from our memory customers.
Revenue


Revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased 4% from the September 2017 quarter, increased 37% compared to the December 2016 quarter, and increased 44% in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, reflecting stronger customer demand for semiconductor equipment in 2017.
Our deferred revenue balance increased to $1.1 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $938 million as of September 24, 2017, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition.
Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance.
Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance.
The estimated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $289 million as of December 24, 2017, and $344 million as of September 24, 2017.
Gross Margin


Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased in the December 2017 quarter compared to the September 2017 and the December 2016 quarter, as well as, in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 primarily due to favorable changes in customer and product mix.
Research and Development



Selling, General, and Administrative



Other Expense, Net



Interest income increased in the December 2017 quarter compared to the December 2016 quarter as a result of higher yield.
Interest income increased in the six months ended December 2017 compared to the six months ended December 2016 as a result of an increase in yield and longer portfolio duration.
Interest expense decreased in the six months ended December 2017 compared to the six months ended December 2016 due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter.
Foreign exchange was a net gain in the December 2017 quarter as compared to a net loss in the September 2017 quarter and a net loss in the six months ended December 2017 compared to a net gain in the six months ended December 2016 due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures.
Loss on extinguishment of debt in the three and six months ended December 25, 2016 related to the special mandatory redemption of our 2023 and 2026 Notes, as well as, the termination of the Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement following the Termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor.
Other, net was higher during the December 2017 quarter, compared to the September 2017 quarter, primarily due to losses associated with the release of accumulated currency translation adjustments resulting from legal entity dissolutions during the period.
Income Tax Expense


The below discussion around the provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are significantly impacted by U.S. tax reform.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 24, 2017 and the three months ended December 25, 2016 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform to the federal statutory tax rate, one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, and reversal of the deferred tax accrual set up in prior periods related to accumulated foreign earnings to be repatriated.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 25, 2016 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform to the federal statutory tax rate, one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, and reversal of the deferred tax accrual set up in prior periods related to accumulated foreign earnings to be repatriated.
International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States.
Additionally, the impact of U.S. tax reform is being evaluated for how it will affect future years’ tax expense due to tax reform provisions that we will potentially be subject to beginning in fiscal year 2019.
Tax reform provisions being evaluated impacting future years include GILTI and other provisions.
Please refer to Note 6 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Form 10-K for additional information.
Uncertain Tax Positions

We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis.
This evaluation is based on factors including but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity.
Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


•the recognition and valuation of revenue from multiple-element arrangements, which impacts revenue;

•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin;

•the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin;

•the valuation of equity-based compensation expense, including forfeiture estimates, which impacts both gross margin and operating expenses;

•the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and

•the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization.
We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position.
Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach.
Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment.
Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit.
In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units.
Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge.
For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present.
If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value.
If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values.
Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods.
We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value.
The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset.
Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2, “Recent Accounting Pronouncements,” of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this report.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $6.0 billion at December 24, 2017 compared to $6.3 billion as of June 25, 2017.
Approximately $5.0 billion and $4.8 billion of our total cash and investments as of December 24, 2017, and June 25, 2017, respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. dollars.
U.S. taxes have already been provided for due to U.S. tax reform as discussed in Note 5 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities




Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended December 24, 2017, was $598.7 million, primarily consisting of net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $323.5 million, capital expenditures of $144.8 million, and business acquisition of $115.7 million.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used for financing activities during the six months ended December 24, 2017, was $924.8 million, primarily consisting of $1.3 billion in treasury stock repurchases, $349.2 million of cash paid for debt extinguishment, and $145.9 million of dividends paid, partially offset by $798.9 million of net short-term borrowings and $38.2 million of stock issuance and treasury stock reissuances associated with our employee stock-based compensation plans.
Liquidity


Under certain circumstances, our Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of our Common Stock.
During the six months ended December 24, 2017, approximately $346.3 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $228 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.
We anticipate that conversions may continue in the coming quarter as the 2018 Notes approach maturity.
We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.
On October 13, 2017, we entered into Amendment No.
2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2nd Amendment”), among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, which amends the Company’s Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”).
Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million under the Credit Agreement to $1.25 billion under the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Amended Credit Agreement also modifies the date of maturity of the revolving credit facility from November 10, 2020 to October 13, 2022.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 

billion.
Other than as disclosed in this paragraph, the material terms of the Amended Credit Agreement are substantially the same as the Credit Agreement.
On November 13, 2017, we established a commercial paper program under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1.25 billion.
Individual maturities may vary, but cannot not exceed 397 days from the date of issue.
The net proceeds from the CP Program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of our Common Stock from time to time and under our stock repurchase program.
If at any time, funds are not available under favorable terms under CP Program, we may utilize the Amended Credit Agreement for funding.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991.3 million has been recognized associated with the recent U.S. tax reform.
This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended December 24, 2017, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
We have elected to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid to be paid each September 15, for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid in on September 15, 2023, 2024, and 2025.
In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services.
While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities.
We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives.
However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Repurchases of Company Shares

In November 2017, the Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock; this authorization supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases will be funded using our on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Executed in December Quarter

On November 20, 2017, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the " November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
We took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Settled in Fiscal Year

On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
We took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
