ITEM 1.Financial Statements
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 — BASIS OF PRESENTATION
NOTE 2 — RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Recently Adopted
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The Company adopted this standard prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
•entities will be required to recognize all excess tax benefits or deficiencies as an income tax benefit or expense in the income statement, eliminating additional paid in capital (“APIC”) pools;
•entities will no longer be required to delay recognition of excess tax benefits until they are realized;
•entities will be required to classify the excess tax benefits as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows;
•entities will be allowed to elect an accounting policy to either estimate the number of forfeitures, or account for forfeitures as they occur;
•entities can withhold up to the maximum individual statutory tax rate without classifying the awards as a liability; and
•the cash paid to satisfy the statutory income tax withholding obligations shall be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
As required by the standard update, the amendment was applied prospectively to recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the income statement in the period of occurrence.
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 included excess tax benefits of $11.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis.
The Company has elected to continue to estimate the number of forfeitures
expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized each period.
The Company has elected to adopt the effects of the standard update with regard to the income tax withholdings obligations on a prospective basis.
Such withholdings during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 were not material.
Updates Not Yet Effective
In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-9, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The new standard defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified-retrospective approach on the earliest period presented.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company is required to adopt the standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.
The Company is required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NOTE 3 — EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’ vesting term on a straight-line basis.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
ESPP
The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the “1999 ESPP”), allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions and used to purchase Common Stock at a purchase price per share equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the first or last day of the applicable purchase period.
Typically, each offering period lasts up to twelve months and comprises two interim purchase dates.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.
NOTE 4 — OTHER EXPENSE, NET
Interest income in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, increased compared to same period in 2016 due to higher yield.
Interest expense decreased in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter.
Loss on extinguishment of debt realized in the three months ended December 25, 2016 is primarily a result of the mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes Due 2023 and 2026 as well as the termination of the Term Loan Agreement.
NOTE 5 — INCOME TAX EXPENSE
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $744.2 million and $841.2 million for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 101.4% and 59.2%, respectively.
As a result of U.S. tax reform, the Company revised its estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect the change in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%.
As the Company has a fiscal year ending the last Sunday in June, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.
Therefore, a blended rate of 28.27% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 28.27% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, outlined below, and income in lower tax jurisdictions.
Revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new U.S. federal statutory tax rate and computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, were recorded on a provisional basis in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 and are therefore subject to potential measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
The Company revalued the deferred tax balances based on the tax rates at which the balance, or a portion of the balance, is expected
Other significant items which are being evaluated by the Company but for which no estimate can currently be made and for which no provisional amounts were recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, include the impact of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provision of U.S. tax reform.
The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets.
This tax is effective for the Company after the end of the current fiscal year.
However, the Company is evaluating whether deferred taxes should be recorded in relation to the GILTI provisions or if the tax should be recorded in the period in which it occurs.
Based on current interpretation, the Company may choose either method as an accounting policy election.
The Company has not yet decided on the accounting policy related to GILTI and will only do so after completion of the GILTI analysis.
The provisions related to GILTI are subject to adjustment during the measurement period under SAB 118.
The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations.
The estimated reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $94 million.
NOTE 6 — NET (LOSS) INCOME PER SHARE
Basic net (loss) income per share is computed by dividing net (loss) income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net (loss) income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes.
Refer to Note 11 for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net (loss) income per share.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
NOTE 7 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities are recognized as other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Fair Value
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes and Convertible Notes.
The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than twelve months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
Cash Flow Hedges
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Changes in the fair value of the forward contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness and are recognized in revenue or expense in the current period.
The change in time value related to these contracts was not material for all reported periods.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange options due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
There were no material gains or losses during the three or six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 associated with ineffectiveness or forecasted transactions that failed to occur.
To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently, with the exception of excluded time value associated with the forward contracts and hedge ineffectiveness recognized, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative
instruments would be recognized in earnings.
Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had gains of $7.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of December 24, 2017, the Company had a net loss of $1.9 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.2 years.
Fair Value Hedges
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
Balance Sheet Hedges
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Therefore, the change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded as a component of other income (expense) and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also recorded in other income (expense).
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.
As of December 24, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $4.1 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $5.6 million and net derivative liability of $15.5 million.
As of June 25, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.9 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.3 million and a net derivative liability of $7.4 million.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions.
Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits.
Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.
The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
NOTE 8 — INVENTORIES
NOTE 9 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
The balance of goodwill is approximately $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 24, 2017, and June 25, 2017, respectively.
As of December 24, 2017, $61.1 million of the goodwill balance is tax deductible and the remaining balance is not tax deductible due to purchase accounting and applicable foreign law.
Intangible Assets
The Company recognized $40.8 million and $38.6 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended December 24, 2017, and December 25, 2016, respectively.
During the six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the company recognized $80.1 million and $77.3 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
Refer to Note 15 - Business Combinations for additional information regarding intangible assets acquired during the six months ended December 24, 2017.
NOTE 10 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
NOTE 11 — LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER BORROWINGS
Convertible Senior Notes
In May 2011, the Company issued and sold $450 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) at par.
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 1.25%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc. (“Novellus”), the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2041 (the “2041 Notes,” and collectively with the 2018 Notes,
the “Convertible Notes”).
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year on the 2041 Notes.
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes.
The initial debt components of the Convertible Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
Under certain circumstances, the Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock.
The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below.
The principal value of Convertible Note conversions in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, was approximately $44.6 million and $346.3 million, respectively.
During the quarter ended December 24, 2017, and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $227.8 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.
Convertible Note Hedges and Warrants
Concurrent with the issuance of the 2018 Notes the Company purchased a convertible note hedge and sold warrants.
The warrants settlement is contractually defined as net share settlement.
The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock.
As of December 24, 2017, the warrants associated with the 2018 Notes had not been exercised and remained outstanding.
In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full.
The convertible note hedge transactions will be settled in net shares and will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date or the first day none of the respective notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise.
Settlement of the convertible note hedge in net shares, based on the number of shares issued upon conversion of the 2018 Notes, on the expiration date would result in the Company receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by the Company upon conversion of the 2018 Notes.
The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 the note hedge was partially settled, resulting in the receipt of approximately 367,000 and 2,459,000 shares, respectively.
Senior Notes
On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”, together with the 2020 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Refer to Note 7 for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect of the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and before December 15, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and on or after December 24, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
On June 7, 2016, The Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 2021 (the “2021 Notes”, together with the 2020 and 2025 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the 2021 Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before May 15, 2021.
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after May 15, 2021.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2021 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Commercial Paper Program
On November 13, 2017, the Company established a new commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion.
The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time and under the Company’s stock repurchase
program.
As of December 24, 2017, borrowings under the CP Program had a weighted-average interest rate of 1.64% with maturities of 30 days or less.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
Revolving Credit Facility
On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into Amendment No.
2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2nd Amendment”), which amends the Company’s prior unsecured Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”).
Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million to $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
The facility matures on October 13, 2022.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.5% in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity.
Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.
Interest Cost
The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Convertible Notes, the Senior Notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, and December 25, 2016.
NOTE 12 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Operating Leases and Related Guarantees
The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “Operating Leases”).
The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 24, 2017.
During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed.
The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
Other Guarantees
The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements.
The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business.
As of December 24, 2017, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $20.6 million.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.
Warranties
The Company provides standard warranties on its systems.
The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.
Legal proceedings
While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
Based on current information, the Company does not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore has not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.
NOTE 13 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
In November 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock; this authorization supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases are funded using the Company’s on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, the Company acquired 98 thousand shares at a total cost of $18.4 million and 109 thousand shares at a total cost of $20.2 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Executed in December Quarter
On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Settled in Fiscal Year
On April 19, 2017, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
NOTE 14 — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
NOTE 15 – BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
On August 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc. (“Coventor”), a privately-held company that is a provider of simulation and modeling solutions for semiconductor process technology, micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), and the Internet of Things, for a total purchase consideration of $137.6 million.
The preliminary fair values of net tangible and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and management’s estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date).
The primary area that remains open relates to the fair value of intangible assets, certain tangible assets and liabilities assumed and income taxes.
The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.
The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired.
None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquired existing technology represents the fair value of products that have reached technological feasibility and are a part of Coventor’s product offerings and customer relationships represent the fair values of the underlying relationships and agreements with Coventor’s customers.
ITEM 1.Legal Proceedings
While we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we believe are material, we are either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
Based on current information, we do not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore have not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.Risk Factors
In addition to the other information in this Form 10-Q, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.
As a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other SEC filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation Decisions
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
Variability in our customers’ business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
If we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
Future Declines in the Semiconductor Industry, and the Overall World Economic Conditions on Which It Is Significantly Dependent, Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
•a decline in demand for our products or services;
•an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers’ inability to pay us;
•an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory;
•valuation allowances on deferred tax assets;
•restructuring charges;
•asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets;
•a decline in the value of our investments;
•exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition;
•a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and
•challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply.
Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results Are Variable
•economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry;
•the size and timing of orders from customers;
•consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services;
•procurement shortages;
•the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations;
•manufacturing difficulties;
•the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business;
•our customers’ reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services;
•changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix;
•our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner;
•our competitors’ introduction of new products;
•legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies;
•transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of God, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters;
•changes in our estimated effective tax rate;
•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share.
We May Incur Impairments to Goodwill or Long-Lived Assets
We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets.
If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations.
Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance.
We operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results.
Additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations.
Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per Share
We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
We may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
•risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations;
•a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Conversion of our Convertible Notes and the exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
This dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain Convertible Notes or
through share repurchases.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
Our Credit Agreements Contain Covenant Restrictions That May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business
•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;
•create liens;
•enter into transactions with our affiliates;
•sell certain assets; and
•merge or consolidate with any person.
Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation.
We Have a Limited Number of Key Customers
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
Consequently, We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological Change
Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes.
We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products.
If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses.
We may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace.
For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips.
That driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
Our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way.
Our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results.
objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project.
We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies.
Future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
This shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share.
We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue Diversification
•a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products,
•a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products,
•export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets,
•an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate,
•increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines,
•technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or
•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.
Strategic Alliances and Customer Consolidation May Have Negative Effects on Our Business
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines.
Even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk.
These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We Expect
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be
unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.
Although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business.
In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances.
There is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships.
We Face Risks Related to the Disruption of Our Primary Manufacturing Facilities
Our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions.
Such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results.
Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That Customer
Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.
We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive Environment
In addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements.
In particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive.
Accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to
Our Future Success Depends Heavily on International Sales and the Management of Global Operations
Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 91%, 92%, and 92% of total revenue in the six months ended December 24, 2017 and fiscal years 2017, and 2016, respectively.
We expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years.
•trade balance issues;
•tariffs and other barriers;
•global or national economic and political conditions;
•changes in currency controls;
•differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions;
•our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers;
•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;
•fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates;
•the need for technical support resources in different locations; and
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
However, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
The magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes.
Our Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our Success
Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
If we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.
Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business, and Products That We Sell Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or Incidents
•The failure of our or our customers’ manufacturing processes;
•Errors in the output of our work or our customers’ work;
•The loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees or customers;
•The public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results;
•Exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents;
•Misappropriation or theft of Company, customer, supplier, or other’s assets or resources, and costs associated therewith;
•Diminution in the value of Lam's investment in research, development and engineering; or
•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax forms and other required communications.
While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
Our Financial Results May Be Adversely Impacted by Higher than Expected Tax Rates or Exposure to Additional Tax Liabilities
As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region.
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities.
Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax
assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities.
These factors could affect our profitability.
In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States.
In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability.
A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results
If We Choose to Acquire or Dispose of Businesses, Product Lines, and Technologies, We May Encounter Unforeseen Costs and Difficulties That Could Impair Our Financial Performance
The Market for Our Common Stock Is Volatile, Which May Affect Our Ability to Raise Capital or Make Acquisitions or May Subject Our Business to Additional Costs
•general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions;
•economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions;
•variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity;
•variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry;
•government regulations;
•developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights;
•technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors;
•commercial success or failure of our new and existing products;
•disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes and related warrants.
In addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations.
Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors.
These and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
If we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management’s attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our Common Stock.
Intellectual Property, Indemnity, and Other Claims Against Us Can Be Costly and We Could Lose Significant Rights That Are Necessary to Our Continued Business and Profitability
Third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us.
From time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships.
In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
However, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties.
Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.
We May Fail to Protect Our Critical Proprietary Technology Rights, Which Could Affect Our Business
Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the U.S. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees.
Additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the United States.
The rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages.
Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions.
Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business.
We Are Exposed to Various Risks from Our Regulatory Environment
There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Declare Cash Dividends or Repurchase Our Shares at All or in Any Particular Amounts
Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
