fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic, eliminating all industry-specific guidance and providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.


item2.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
King’s games are free to play, however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or directly using real currency.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues decreased 7% to $1.51 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 3% to $265 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.62 billion and consolidated operating income of $257 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.28 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.35 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · consolidated net income increased 38% to $260 million, as compared to $188 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; net income for the 2018 period included $72 million of net tax benefits from discrete tax items primarily related to updates to our accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S.
· consolidated net revenues increased 3% to $5.12 billion, and consolidated operating income increased 19% to $1.29 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $4.97 billion and consolidated operating income of $1.09 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $4.00 billion, or 78% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $4.05 billion, or 81% of consolidated net revenues, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · operating margin was 25.3%, as compared to 21.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 35% to $1.51, as compared to $1.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.


item3.txt
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.


item4.txt



part2.txt



