fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.


item2.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination (the “Business Combination”) by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc. (“Vivendi Games”), then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 16% to $0.65, as compared to $0.56 for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.


item3.txt
The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks.
At March 31, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less.


item4.txt



part2.txt



