fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.


item2.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues increased 1% to $1.64 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 28% to $434 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.63 billion and consolidated operating income of $339 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.26 billion, or 77% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.31 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · operating margin was 26.4%, as compared to 20.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 63% to $0.52, as compared to $0.32 for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
· consolidated net revenues increased 7% to $3.61 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 24% to $1.0 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $3.36 billion and consolidated operating income of $831 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $2.72 billion, or 75% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $2.69 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the six months ended June 30, 2017; · operating margin was 28.5%, as compared to 24.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2017; The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
Q2 2018 vs. Q2 2017 · lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
· higher net bookings from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
YTD Q2 2018 vs. YTD Q2 2017 · higher net bookings from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.


item3.txt
The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks.


item4.txt



part2.txt



