fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
The third quarters and nine months ended for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively, and ended on June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
Based on its preliminary assessments, the Company does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of its revenue recognition.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We generated net revenue of $894.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, a decrease of $6.5 million or 0.7%, as compared with $900.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 7.2% or $192.8 million to $2,859.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $2,666.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
The $2.0 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $52.8 million.
The $104.2 million increase in gross profit for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $227.0 million.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue, when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products.
The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to a net gain related to the fair value adjustment of contingent consideration during the period.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,158.1 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $384.4 million and $106.3 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 29, 2018.


part2.txt
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.


