fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Topic 350), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”).
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including the available practical expedients and the discount rate to be applied in the valuations.
At March 29, 2019, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $38.1 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We generated net revenue of $810.4 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019, a decrease of $103.0 million or 11.3%, as compared with $913.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Net revenue decreased by 9.3% or $182.9 million to $1,782.4 million for the six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with $1,965.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
This decrease in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 29, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve.
Gross profit margin decreased to 49.4% of net revenue for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with 50.2% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The $110.1 million decrease in gross profit for the six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $298.7 million.
Gross profit margin decreased to 49.7% of net revenue for the six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with 50.7% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $816.3 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $141.1 million and $33.9 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of March 29, 2019.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
Risk Factors.


