fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”).
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase to the Company’s consolidated balance sheet for these assets and obligations.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
At December 28, 2018, the Company had $13.7 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $43.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
At September 28, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $94.1 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We generated net revenue of $972.0 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018, a decrease of $79.9 million or 7.6%, as compared with $1,051.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The $51.7 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $170.5 million.
Gross profit margin decreased to 49.9% of net revenue for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with 51.0% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products.
The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,085.7 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $13.4 million and $2.7 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of December 28, 2018.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 28, 2018.


part2.txt
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.


