fls.txt
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues.
The expected impact of the Business Ink acquisition includes estimates for certain integration-related expenses and estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2018 was $0.42 compared to $0.62 for the first quarter of 2017, with the decrease mainly attributed to a lower effective income tax rate of 9% for the first quarter of 2017, compared to an effective income tax rate of 31% for the current quarter.
As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
The quarterly decrease can be mainly attributed to the purchase of Business Ink for approximately $70 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues.
Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $177.5 million, a 12% increase when compared to $158.8 million for the first quarter of 2017.
Software and Services Revenues.
Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $12.0 million, a 21% decrease when compared to $15.1 million for the first quarter of 2017.
Maintenance Revenues.
Cost of Revenues.
Cost of Cloud and Related Solutions (Exclusive of Depreciation).
Total cloud and related solutions cost as a percentage of cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 49.0% and 47.9%, respectively, with the increase attributed to the reclassifications resulting from the adoption of ASC 606.
Cost of Software and Services (Exclusive of Depreciation).


item3.txt
Long-Term Debt.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Refer to Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


