fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We generate approximately 65% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
As discussed in Note 5 to our Financial Statements, on February 28, 2018 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
Forte Payment Systems, Inc. We acquired Forte for a purchase price of approximately $85 million ($80 million, net of cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings.
This represents a purchase price approximately equal to Forte’s 2018 projected revenues.
Revenues.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2018 was $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage, compared to $28.4 million, or a 14.2% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2017, with the decrease in operating margin percentage reflective of costs associated with the integration of Business Ink and the continuation of planned investments aimed at generating future long-term growth in our business.
As of September 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $199.3 million, as compared to $186.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Cost of Revenues.
See our 2017 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.


item3.txt
Long-Term Debt.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $197.2 million and $122.3 million, respectively.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


