fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The unaudited interim consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 and statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included herein, have been prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Article 10 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the net income for the period by the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue comes from contracts with customers for subscriptions to its cloud-based products or contracts to perform compliance or other services.
The Company recognizes revenue for subscriptions evenly over the contract period, upon distribution for per release contracts and upon event completion for webcasting events.
For all other services delivered on a per project or event basis, the revenue is recognized at the completion of the event.
If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company uses the residual method to allocate any remaining costs to that subscription or service.
The Company invoices its customers based on the billing schedules designated in its contracts, typically upfront on either a monthly, quarterly or annual basis or per transaction at the completion of the performance obligation.
Deferred revenue for the periods presented was primarily related to subscription and service contracts, which are billed upfront, quarterly or annually, however the revenue has not yet been recognized.
Deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1,464,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and is expected to be recognized within one year.
Revenue recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of each reporting period, was approximately $690,000 and $488,000, respectively.
Since substantially all of the contracts have terms of one year or less, the Company has elected to use the practical expedient regarding the existence of a significant financing.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has capitalized $20,000 and $18,000 of costs to obtain contracts that are expected to be amortized over more than one year.
We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is based upon a review of outstanding receivables as well as historical collection information.
Significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts and the valuation of goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation.
At the end of each interim period, we estimate the effective tax rate we expect to be applicable for the full year and this rate is applied to our results for the interim year-to-date period and then adjusted for any discrete period items.
Costs incurred to develop our cloud-based platform products are capitalized when the preliminary project phase is complete, management commits to fund the project and it is probable the project will be completed and used for its intended purposes.
Once the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use, the software is amortized over its estimated useful life.
Our operating lease agreements are primarily for office space and are included within operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and operating lease liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Level 2 – Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or other valuation techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we believe that the fair value of our financial instruments other than cash and cash equivalents, such as, accounts receivable, our line of credit, notes payable, and accounts payable approximate their carrying amounts.
Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized.
Intangible assets consist of client relationships, customer lists, distribution partner relationships, software, technology, non-compete agreements and trademarks that are initially measured at fair value.
At the time of the business combination, trademarks are considered an indefinite-lived asset and, as such, are not amortized as there is no foreseeable limit to cash flows generated from them.


