The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of risk and uncertainties, including those set forth under the heading “Forward Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this report and those set forth in “Item 1A.
Forward Looking Statements  

 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Statements in this report regarding future events or conditions, including but not limited to statements regarding industry prospects and the Company’s expected financial position, results of operations, business and financing plans, are forward-looking statements.
These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” and “continue” or similar words.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, 


including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally.
We strongly urge current and prospective investors to carefully consider the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in this report and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The statements concerning future sales, future gross profit margin and future selling and administrative expenses are forward looking statements involving certain risks and uncertainties such as availability of products, product mix, pricing pressures, market conditions and other factors, which could result in a fluctuation of sales below recent experience.
Financial Overview  


 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
