Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

 In addition to its activities in the United States, 10.5% of the Company sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were generated by its subsidiaries in Canada and Europe.
We are subject to general risks attendant to the conduct of business in Canada and Europe, including economic uncertainties and foreign government regulations.
In addition, the Company’s international business is subject to changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors.
See “Item 2 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Foreign Exchange.”  

 The Company’s cash balance is invested in short-term savings accounts with our primary banks, Citibank, and JPMorgan Chase Bank.
As such, we believe that the risk of significant changes in the value of our cash invested is minimal.
Table of Contents  

 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer).
Based upon that evaluation, we have identified a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the material weaknesses described below, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
The weaknesses we identified relate to several deficiencies in the design and operating effectiveness of controls over financial reporting that we reported in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, that in the aggregate constitute a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting.
Management performed additional procedures to determine the impact of these issues and determined that any errors resulting from the deficiencies above were immaterial individually and in the aggregate, to the Company’s current and previously issued financial statements.
·    Hire and train appropriate personnel or professionals sufficient to manage the complexity, timing, and ever changing nature of our business and financial reporting requirements.
·    Retain and evaluate the qualifications and performance of experts who are engaged to assist in the evaluation and adoption of accounting and tax matters where appropriate.
The Company has retained an accounting firm to advise with state income tax compliance requirements.
·    Ensure controls are properly designed and documented to address risks and train key process owners and other relevant personnel to perform timely reconciliations with appropriate documentation and review procedures.
The Company has retained outside advisors to assist in the documentation of controls and account reconciliation processes and has implemented enhanced procedures related to the review and documentation of account analysis.
The Company is currently testing the performance of these procedures with its outside advisors.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

 In January 2018, we implemented certain internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rules 13a-15(d) and 15d-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  

 Item 2.
- Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   

 third quarter of 2018.
ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  


   (1)    Includes 1,888 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.
The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Table of Contents  

 Item 6.
Exhibits  



 Table of Contents  

 SIGNATURES  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
