 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures”, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of various members of our management, including our Company’s Interim President and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer).
Based upon that evaluation, we have identified a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s Interim Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 Table of Contents
 Based on the material weaknesses described below, the Company’s Interim Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
 The weaknesses we identified relate to several deficiencies in the design and operating effectiveness of controls over financial reporting that we reported in our annual report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, that in the aggregate constitute a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting.
Management performed additional procedures to determine the impact of these issues and determined that any errors resulting from the deficiencies above were immaterial individually and in the aggregate, to the Company’s current and previously issued financial statements.
   ·    Hire and train appropriate personnel or professionals sufficient to manage the complexity, timing, and ever changing nature of our business and financial reporting requirements.
   ·    Retain and evaluate the qualifications and performance of experts who are engaged to assist in the evaluation and adoption of accounting and tax matters where appropriate.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 the Company retained an accounting firm to assist with state income tax compliance requirements.
   ·    Ensure controls are properly designed and documented to address risks and train key process owners and other relevant personnel to perform timely reconciliations with appropriate documentation and review procedures.
The Company has retained outside advisors to assist in the documentation of controls and account reconciliation processes.
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 In January 2018, we implemented certain internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rules 13a-15(d) and 15d-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
