fls.txt



item1.txt
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks, TurboTax and Mint, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
As a result, the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2019 is not comparable with that as of July 31, 2019.
Funds held for customers represent cash held on behalf of our customers that is invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
For example, we use judgments and estimates in determining how revenue should be recognized.
Since the dividend rights are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards they are considered a contingent transfer of value.
In loss periods, basic net loss per share and diluted net loss per share are the same since the effect of potential common shares is anti-dilutive and therefore excluded.
Our performance obligations are generally satisfied within 12 months of the initial contract date.
We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”.
Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019.
When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Financial assets whose fair values we measure on a recurring basis using Level 2 inputs consist of municipal bonds, corporate notes, and U.S. agency securities.
We periodically review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns.


item2.txt
and data-driven solutions.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
See “Executive Overview – About Intuit” earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses.
Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
Recently, we have become the subject of certain legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries relating to the provision and marketing of the product that we offer under the IRS Free File Program.
We operate in industries that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products.
Further, because we have created an ecosystem where customers can have one identity across multiple Intuit products, a security incident may give access to increased amounts of customer data.


