fls.txt



item1.txt
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
For non-consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the retailer.
As a result, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term as services are provided.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
We also have revenue-sharing and royalty arrangements with third-party partners and recognize this revenue as earned based upon reporting provided to us by our partners.
In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates.
In many cases SSPs for distinct performance obligations are based on directly observable pricing.
We generally provide refunds to customers for product returns and subscription cancellations.
Discounts and incentive rebates are estimated based on distributors' and retailers' performance against the terms and conditions of the rebate programs.
Our internal sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer.
These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations, determining if the performance obligations are distinct, determining the SSP and timing of revenue recognition for each distinct performance obligation, and estimating variable consideration to be included in the transaction price.
Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest.


item2.txt
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
Further, legislation or regulatory changes may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users.
In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.


