fls.txt



item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
See Note 10, “Segment Information,” for more information.
Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest.
Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share.
Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019.
With respect to our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions, under the current standard, we recognize all revenue related to the desktop solutions as services are provided.
When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
We value our Level 1 assets, consisting primarily of time deposits, using quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Financial assets whose fair values we measure on a recurring basis using Level 2 inputs consist of municipal bonds, corporate notes, and U.S. agency securities.
These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.
We estimate the fair values of the auction rate securities using a discounted cash flow model.
We use the specific identification method to compute gains and losses on investments.
Unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities at January 31, 2018 were not significant and were due to changes in interest rates, including market credit spreads, and not due to increased credit risks associated with specific securities.
We do not intend to sell these investments.
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities classified by the stated maturity date of the security at the dates indicated.


item2.txt
There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers.
We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business.
Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years.
Net loss per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.08 compared to net income per share of $0.05 in the same quarter of fiscal 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future.
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
The IRS Free File Program is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers tax software to taxpayers, and as part of the program the IRS has agreed it will not offer a competing service.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
These attacks could also disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations.


