fls.txt



item1.txt
We have reclassified certain amounts previously reported in our financial statements to conform to the current presentation, including amounts related to reportable segments.
See Note 10, “Segment Information,” for more information.
Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest.
Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share.
In loss periods, basic net loss per share and diluted net loss per share are the same since the effect of potential common shares is anti-dilutive and therefore excluded.
No customer accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the three or nine months ended April 30, 2018 or April 30, 2017.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This new standard amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
This standard is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
The new standard is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, which means that it is effective for us beginning August 1, 2018.
Our QuickBooks Desktop solutions include both packaged software products and software subscriptions.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services.
We do not expect the deferral of incremental commission costs to be material.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques and significant management judgment or estimation.
These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.


item2.txt
There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers.
While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase.
We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future.
This charge was partially offset by tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
These attacks could also disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations.


