fls.txt



item1.txt
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
For non-consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the retailer.
As a result, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term as services are provided.
Our online offerings include our TurboTax Online products, ProConnect Tax Online products, QuickBooks Online products, online payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our online offerings.
In instances where we do not have reporting from our partners, we estimate revenue based on information available to us at the time.
In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates.
We generally provide refunds to customers for product returns and subscription cancellations.
We also provide promotional discounts and incentive rebates on retail and distribution sales.
These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations, determining if the performance obligations are distinct, determining the SSP and timing of revenue recognition for each distinct performance obligation, and estimating variable consideration to be included in the transaction price.
We compute basic net income or loss per share using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights.
Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share.
We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable.
No customer accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the three or six months ended January 31, 2019 or January 31, 2018.


item2.txt
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
These shifts are accelerating product introductions and enhancements.
Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data.
These judgments and estimates include (1) identifying performance obligations in the contract; (2) determining whether the performance obligations are distinct; (3) determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation; (4) determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations; and (5) estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price.
If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with the initiatives and inadequate return on investments.
We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
Customers who fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support or that fail to install security patches on a timely basis create vulnerabilities and make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks.
We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products.


