fls.txt



item1.txt
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes.
See the discussion of changes to our revenue recognition policy for the adoption of Topic 606, the new revenue recognition standard, below.
Our consumer and professional tax desktop products include an on-premise tax software license, related tax form updates, electronic filing service and connected services.
For non-consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the retailer.
The term software license and stand-ready obligation to maintain compliance with current payroll tax laws is considered one performance obligation.
As a result, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term as services are provided.
We also have revenue-sharing and royalty arrangements with third-party partners and recognize this revenue as earned based upon reporting provided to us by our partners.
We record revenue net of sales tax obligations.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
In many cases SSPs for distinct performance obligations are based on directly observable pricing.
We generally provide refunds to customers for product returns and subscription cancellations.
These refunds, discounts and incentive rebates are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
Our internal sales commissions are considered incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer.
We exclude stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are greater than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is greater than the average market price for our common stock, from the calculation of diluted net income per share because their effect is anti-dilutive.
Since the dividend rights are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards they are considered a contingent transfer of value.
As of April 30, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the notes receivable balance was $96 million and $55 million, respectively, and the allowance for loan losses were not significant.


item2.txt
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
High availability and speed of service are reshaping customer expectations around the world.
These shifts are accelerating product introductions and enhancements.
Among cloud-based service companies, free business models and micro-job solutions are also becoming more prevalent within the industry.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
The number of people who access products and services through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, and handheld computers such as tablets, continues to increase.
Further, legislation or regulatory changes may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.


