fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc.
As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amounts reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, C Enterprises, Inc. contributed $2.9 million and $4.5 million of revenue, respectively.
Two vendors accounted for 23% and 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2019.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the same two vendors accounted for 17% and 14% of inventory purchases, respectively.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, one vendor accounted for 50% of inventory purchases.
This same vendor accounted for 47% of inventory purchases for the nine months ended July 31, 2018.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.


item2.txt
(“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 75% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 25% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019.
● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had $32.1 million in current assets and $5.4 million in current liabilities.
As a result, the Company had $8 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended July 31, 2019.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million).
The Company used $0.9 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 for capital expenditures primarily for the purpose of increasing production and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options.
For example, on March 15, 2019, the Company purchased all of the assets of C Enterprises for $600,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


