fls.txt
This report contains forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
Operating results for the three month ended January 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2018.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $62,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amount has been included within discontinued operations.
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment.
For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
One vendor accounted for 23% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
No vendor accounted for greater than 10% of inventory purchases for the three months ended January 31, 2017.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase product based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.
The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy).
Potentially dilutive securities totaling 771,973 and 1,024,188 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted per share amounts because of their anti-dilutive effect.
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees.
On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee.


item2.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
The earn-out was and will continue to be revalued quarterly using a present value approach and any resulting increase or decrease will be recorded into selling and general expenses.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital.
·As of January 31, 2018, the Company had $18.8 million in current assets and $4.9 million in current liabilities.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Part II.
Nothing to report.


