Unless otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending September 27, 2019 and ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of June 28, 2019.
See Note 16 for net sales disaggregated by industry end market and geographic region which is summarized by segment and that we consider meaningful to depict the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows affected by economic factors.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We expect that adoption will likely have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet; however, we currently do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.
We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
●Our net sales decreased 5.4% and 3.2% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and Communications Solutions segments, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 2.8% and 0.5% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 1.7% and 3.4% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
●Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 13.5% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due to sales declines in both the appliances and the data and devices end markets.
●Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $1,575 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
●Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales declines in the industrial equipment and energy end markets to be partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
In the industrial equipment end market, sales declines resulting from high inventory levels at distributors are expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $50 million and $0.03 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.