fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
See Note 10 related to Leases for additional disclosures related to the implementation of ASU 2016-02 (“Topic 842”).
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $85 and $60 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $28 and $(9) for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
total assets and liabilities increased due to the recording of right-of-use assets of $1.5 million and lease liabilities of $1.6 million.
Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'.
2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days.
The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs).


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Second quarter 2019 revenues increased by $3.4 million or 82.0% to $7.5 million for the test and measurement product line compared to the second quarter 2018 and decreased by $1.5 million or 8.4% to $16.0 million for the antenna product line.
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas.
Revenues increased for the test and measurement product line by $4.9 million or 60.6% compared to the same period in 2018 and decreased for the antenna product line during the six months ended June 30, 2019 by $4.1 million or 11.7% due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas.
PCTEL antenna are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where the antennas are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
Our test and measurement products are sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEM providers who integrate our products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


