fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
PCTEL operates in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets addressed by the Connected Solutions segment is fragmented.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.
These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal process engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.


item2.txt
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Our second quarter 2018 revenues of $21.6 million increased by $0.1 million, or 0.4% compared to revenues of $21.5 million for the same period in 2017.
Revenues increased for the Connected Solutions segment by $0.6 million or 3.6%, but these higher revenues were offset when revenues for the RF Solutions segment declined by $0.5 million or 11.3%.
Revenues declined in the RF Solutions segment by $2.3 million or 21.9%, but revenues increased in the Connected Solutions segment by $1.1 million or 3.2%.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


