fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
PCTEL is a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.
Until the reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
Each segment had its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report reflects the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August of 2018.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.


item2.txt
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Our third quarter 2018 revenues of $18.4 million decreased by $5.2 million or 22.1% compared to revenues of $23.7 million for the same period in 2017.
Revenues decreased for the Connected Solutions segment by $3.1 million or 17.3% and decreased for the RF Solutions segment by $2.2 million or 38.0% compared to the third quarter 2017.
For the third quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $2.4 million compared to operating profit of $0.9 million in the third quarter 2017.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $5.2 million compared to operating profit of $0.6 million during the same period in 2017.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded $0.7 million in restructuring expenses related to the reorganization of the Company.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


