fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets addressed by the Connected Solutions segment is fragmented.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
See Note 13 related to Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional disclosures related to revenue policies.
In addition, the Company reaffirms the use of estimates in the preparation of the financial statements as set forth in the 2017 Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the period ended March 31, 2018 may not be indicative of the results for the period ending December 31, 2018.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of shareholders’ equity.
2016-13 ("ASU 2016-13") regarding ASC Topic 326, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses," which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
The amendments will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2020.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to OEM providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



