ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.
From time to time, the Company reviews its disclosure controls and procedures, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that the Company’s systems evolve with its business.
There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
While we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, we believe that any liability arising from them will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
RISK FACTORS

For a list of factors that could affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, see the risk factors discussion provided in Part I—Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
OTHER INFORMATION

On December 5, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors allowed the Company’s Shareholder Rights Agreement and associated rights to expire in accordance with their terms without renewal.
In connection with the adoption of the Shareholder Rights Agreement, the Company had filed Articles of Amendment to its Restated Articles of Organization establishing Series E Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock with the Secretary of State of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, setting forth the rights, powers, and preferences of the Series E Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the rights (the “Preferred Shares”).
Effective on April 26, 2019, the Company filed Articles of Amendment to the Company’s Restated Articles of Organization with the Secretary of State of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts eliminating the Preferred Shares and returning them to authorized but undesignated shares of the Company’s preferred stock.
EXHIBITS



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
