ITEM 1: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COGNEX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to revenue recognition in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Reference should be made to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a full description of significant accounting policies.
In the opinion of the management of the Company, the accompanying consolidated unaudited financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal, recurring adjustments and financial statement reclassifications, necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of July 1, 2018, and the results of its operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, and changes in shareholders’ equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the periods presented.
The results disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
Revenue Recognition
Identifying the Contract with the Customer
The Company identifies contracts with customers as agreements that create enforceable rights and obligations, which typically take the form of customer contracts or purchase orders.
Identifying the Performance Obligations in the Contract
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Standard products and services that the Company regularly sells separately are accounted for as distinct performance obligations.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
On-site support services that are provided to the customer after the solution is deployed are accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries.
Shipping and handling activities for which the Company is responsible under the terms and conditions of the sale are not accounted for as performance obligations but as fulfillment costs.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the goods and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
The Company does not assess whether promised goods or services are performance obligations if they are immaterial in the context of the contract.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
Determining the Transaction Price
The Company determines the transaction price as the amount of consideration it expects to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
If a contract includes a variable amount, such as a rebate, then the Company estimates the transaction price using either the expected value or the most likely amount of consideration to be received, depending upon the specific facts and circumstances.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
The Company
updates its estimate of variable consideration at the end of each reporting period to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
Allocating the Transaction Price to the Performance Obligations
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
Recognizing Revenue When (or As) the Performance Obligations are Satisfied
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Revenue for standard products is recognized at the point in time when the customer obtains control of the goods, which is typically upon delivery when the customer has legal title, physical possession, the risks and rewards of ownership, and an enforceable obligation to pay for the products.
Revenue for services, which are not material, is typically recognized over the time the service is provided.
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement.
Although the customer may have taken legal title and physical possession of the goods when they arrived at the customer’s designated site, the significant risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer only upon validation.
Revenue for on-site support services related to these solutions is recognized over the time the service is provided.
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications.
If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.
For the Company’s standard products and services, revenue recognition and billing typically occur at the same time.
For application-specific customer solutions, however, the agreement with the customer may provide for billing terms which differ from revenue recognition criteria, resulting in either deferred revenue or unbilled revenue.
Credit assessments are performed to determine payment terms, which vary by region, industry, and customer.
Prepayment terms result in contract liabilities for customer deposits.
When credit is granted to customers, payment is typically due 30 to 90 days from billing.
The Company's contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year, and therefore as a practical expedient, the Company has elected to ignore the impact of the time value of money on a contract and to expense sales commissions.
The Company recognizes an asset for costs to fulfill a contract if the costs relate directly to the contract and to future performance, and the costs are expected to be recovered.
Management exercises judgment when determining the amount of revenue to be recognized each period.
Such judgments include, but are not limited to, assessing the customer’s ability and intention to pay substantially all of the contract consideration when due, determining when two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, determining whether a contract modification has occurred, assessing whether promises are immaterial in the context of the contract, determining whether material promises in a contract represent distinct performance obligations, estimating the transaction price for a contract that contains variable consideration, determining the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation, determining whether control is transferred over time or at a point in time for performance obligations, and assessing whether formal customer acceptance provisions are substantive.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, "Leases"
ASU 2016-02 creates Topic 842, Leases.
The objective of this Update is to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet, and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.
The main difference between current GAAP and Topic 842 is the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under current GAAP.
Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current GAAP.
For public companies, the guidance in ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Although this ASU is required to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, the Financial Accounting Standards Board is reportedly in the final stages of issuing an optional transition method allowing entities to apply the amendments of this Update as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
Management will continue to monitor the final implementation guidance to determine the adoption method.
As of the date of this report, management has determined the scope of leases subject to the new accounting requirements and has selected a software package to assist with compliance.
Management is in the process of reviewing all leases in scope, completing the implementation of the lease accounting software, and drafting the internal lease accounting policy and the related processes, internal controls, and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Measurement of Credit Losses"
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this Update eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
In addition, this Update broadens the information an entity must consider in developing the credit loss estimate, including the use of reasonable and supportable forecasted information.
The amendments in this Update require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
For public companies, the guidance in ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods.
This ASU should be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
Management does not expect ASU 2016-13 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-08, "Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs - Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities "
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium).
The amendments in this Update shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium.
Specifically, the amendments require the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
If that callable debt security is subsequently called, the entity records a loss equal to the unamortized premium.
The amendments in this Update more closely align the amortization period of premiums and discounts to expectations incorporated in market pricing on the underlying securities.
For public companies, the amendments in ASU 2017-08 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim reporting periods within annual years beginning after December 15, 2020.
This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
Management does not expect ASU 2017-08 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging - Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities"
ASU 2017-12 applies to all reporting entities that elect to apply hedge accounting.
The hedge accounting requirements under current GAAP sometimes do not permit an entity to properly recognize the economic results of the hedging strategy in the financial statements, and they are difficult to understand and interpret.
The amendments in this Update make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance.
Also, they better align the risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both 1) the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and 2) the presentation of hedge results.
For public companies, the amendments in ASU 2017-12 are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim reporting periods within those annual periods.
Early adoption is permitted including adoption in any interim period after issuance of the Update.
All transition requirements and elections should be applied to hedging relationships existing on the date of adoption.
The entity should apply a cumulative-effect adjustment related to eliminating the separate measurement of ineffectiveness to accumulated other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year that an entity adopts the amendments in this Update.
The amended presentation and disclosure guidance is required only prospectively.
Management does not expect ASU 2017-12 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-01, "Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842"
ASU 2018-01 applies to entities with land easements that exist or expired before an entity’s adoption of Topic 842, provided that the entity does not account for those land easements as leases under Topic 840.
The amendments in this Update permit an entity to elect an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate under Topic 842 land
easements that exist or expired before the entity’s adoption of Topic 842 and that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840.
An entity that elects this practical expedient should apply the practical expedient consistently to all of its existing or expired land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840.
Once an entity adopts Topic 842, it should apply that Topic prospectively to all new (or modified) land easements to determine whether the arrangement should be accounted for as a lease.
An entity that does not elect this practical expedient should evaluate all existing or expired land easements in connection with the adoption of the new lease requirements in Topic 842 to assess whether they meet the definition of a lease.
The amendments in this Update affect the amendments in Update 2016-02, which are not yet effective but may be early adopted.
The effective date and transition requirements for the amendments are the same as the effective date and transition requirements in Update 2016-02, which is for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Management does not expect ASU 2018-01 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income"
ASU 2018-02 applies to entities required to apply the provisions of Topic 220, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income, and has items of other comprehensive income for which the related tax effects are presented in other comprehensive income as required by GAAP.
The amendments in this Update allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act").
Consequently, the amendments eliminate the stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act and will improve the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users.
However, because the amendments only relate to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the Tax Act, the underlying guidance that requires the effect of a change in tax laws or rates to be included in income from continuing operations is not affected.
The amendments in this Update also require certain disclosures about stranded tax effects.
The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption of the amendments in this Update is permitted, including adoption in any interim period.
The amendments in this Update should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized.
Management does not expect ASU 2018-02 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-07, "Compensation - Stock Compensation - Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting"
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Financial Assets and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The Company’s money market instruments are reported at fair value based upon the daily market price for identical assets in active markets, and are therefore classified as Level 1.
The Company’s debt securities and forward contracts are reported at fair value based upon model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, and are therefore classified as Level 2.
Management is responsible for estimating the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities, and in doing so, considers valuations provided by a large, third-party pricing service.
For debt securities, this service maintains regular contact with market makers, brokers, dealers, and analysts to gather information on market movement, direction, trends, and other specific data.
They use this information to structure yield curves for various types of debt securities and arrive at the daily valuations.
The Company's forward contracts are typically traded or executed in over-the-counter markets with a high degree of pricing transparency.
The market participants are generally large commercial banks.
The Company did not record an other-than-temporary impairment of these financial assets during the six-month period ended July 1, 2018.
The Company's contingent consideration liabilities are reported at fair value based upon probability-adjusted present values of the consideration expected to be paid, using significant inputs that are not observable in the market, and are therefore classified as Level 3.
Key assumptions used in these estimates include probability assessments with respect to the likelihood of achieving certain revenue milestones.
The fair values of these contingent consideration liabilities were calculated using discount rates consistent with the level of risk of achievement, and are remeasured each reporting period with changes in fair value recorded in "Other income (expense)" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Non-financial Assets that are Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis
Non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value only when an impairment loss is recognized.
The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017.
Treasury bills consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government; corporate bonds consist of debt securities issued by both domestic and foreign companies; asset-backed securities consist of debt securities collateralized by pools of receivables or loans with credit enhancement; agency bonds consist of domestic or foreign obligations of government agencies and government sponsored enterprises that have government backing; municipal bonds consist of debt securities issued by state and local government entities; and sovereign bonds consist of direct debt issued by foreign governments.
All securities are denominated in U.S.
Dollars.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
As of July 1, 2018, the Company did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment of these investments.
In its evaluation, management considered the type of security, the credit rating of the security, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position, the Company's intent and ability to hold the security to expected recovery of value, and other meaningful information.
The Company does not intend to sell, and is unlikely to be required to sell, any of these available-for-sale investments before their effective maturity or market price recovery.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $308,000 and $61,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended July 1, 2018 and $55,000 and $13,000, respectively, during the three-month period ended July 2, 2017.
The Company recorded gross realized gains and gross realized losses on the sale of debt securities totaling $363,000 and $94,000, respectively, during the six-month period ended July 1, 2018 and $143,000 and $36,000, respectively, during the six-month period ended July 2, 2017.
These gains and losses are included in "Investment income" on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Prior to the sale of these securities, unrealized gains and losses for these debt securities, net of tax, are recorded in shareholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company records the estimated cost of fulfilling product warranties at the time of sale based upon historical costs to fulfill claims.
Obligations may also be recorded subsequent to the time of sale whenever specific events or circumstances impacting product quality become known that would not have been taken into account using historical data.
While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and third-party contract manufacturers, the Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure.
An adverse change in any of these factors may result in the need for additional warranty provisions.
Warranty obligations are included in “Accrued expenses” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company’s foreign currency risk management strategy is principally designed to mitigate the potential financial impact of changes in the value of transactions and balances denominated in foreign currencies resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Currently, the Company enters into two types of hedges to manage this risk.
The first are economic hedges which utilize foreign currency forward contracts with maturities of up to 45 days to manage
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
the exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising primarily from foreign-denominated receivables and payables.
The gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to be offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities being hedged.
These economic hedges are not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting treatment.
The second are cash flow hedges which utilize foreign currency forward contracts with maturities of up to 18 months to hedge specific forecasted transactions of the Company's foreign subsidiaries with the goal of protecting the Company's budgeted revenues and expenses against foreign currency exchange rate changes compared to its budgeted rates.
These cash flow hedges are designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting treatment.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," using the full retrospective method to present all periods reported on a consistent basis.
Accordingly, prior-period results have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
As a result of this adoption, revenue for software-only products sold as part of multiple-deliverable arrangements are no longer deferred when vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist for the undelivered elements of the arrangement.
This change results in earlier recognition of revenue.
In addition, certain of the Company’s product accessory sales, which were reported on a net basis, are now reported on a gross basis as a result of applying the expanded guidance in the new standard related to principal versus agent considerations.
This change results in the Company reporting higher revenue and higher cost of revenue when these sales are reported on a gross basis, although the gross margin dollars do not change.
Furthermore, for arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized when the Company can objectively determine that control has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, which may occur before formal customer acceptance.
This change primarily impacts revenue recognition for arrangements in the logistics industry where certain customer solutions include installed products and results in earlier recognition of revenue.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Costs to Fulfill a Contract
Costs to fulfill a contract are included in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and amounted to $15,257,000 and $3,230,000 as of July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Accounts Receivable, Contract Assets, and Contract Liabilities
Accounts receivable represent amounts billed and currently due from customers which are reported at their net estimated realizable value.
The Company maintains reserves against its accounts receivable for potential credit losses.
Credit losses recognized on accounts receivable were immaterial for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, respectively.
Contract assets consist of unbilled revenue which arises when revenue is recognized in advance of billing for certain application-specific customer solutions contracts.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and customer deposits which arise when amounts are billed to or collected from customers in advance of revenue recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, as our contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future.
Options expected to vest are calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options.
Risk-free rate
The risk-free rate was based upon a treasury instrument whose term was consistent with the contractual term of the option.
Expected dividend yield
Generally, the current dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by the Company’s Board of Directors and dividing that result by the closing stock price on the grant date.
Expected volatility
The expected volatility was based upon a combination of historical volatility of the Company’s common stock over the contractual term of the option and implied volatility for traded options of the Company’s stock.
Expected term
The expected term was derived from the binomial lattice model from the impact of events that trigger exercises over time.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the three-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $21.63 and $15.51, respectively.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $21.62 and $14.98, respectively.
The total intrinsic values of stock options exercised for the three-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $4,902,000 and $19,408,000, respectively.
The total intrinsic values of stock options exercised for the six-month
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $32,991,000 and $72,451,000, respectively.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $887,000 and $725,000, respectively.
The total fair values of stock options vested for the six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017 were $26,560,000 and $18,713,000, respectively.
As of July 1, 2018, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was $56,124,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.80 years.
The fair values of restricted stock awards granted were determined based upon the market value of the Company's common stock at the time of grant.
The initial cost was then amortized over the period of vesting until the restrictions lapsed.
These restricted shares became fully vested in 2018.
Participants were entitled to dividends on restricted stock awards, but only receive those amounts if the shares vest.
The sale or transfer of these shares was restricted during the vesting period.
The total stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit recognized for the three-month period ended July 1, 2018 were $9,002,000 and $1,607,000, respectively, and for the three-month period ended July 2, 2017 were $7,846,000 and $2,583,000, respectively.
The total stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit recognized for the six-month period ended July 1, 2018 were $22,196,000 and $3,954,000, respectively, and for the six-month period ended July 2, 2017 were $15,329,000 and $5,022,000, respectively.
No compensation expense was capitalized as of July 1, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
In April 2017, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $100,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of July 1, 2018, the Company had repurchased 1,744,000 shares at a cost of $100,000,000 under this program, including 803,000 shares at a cost of $45,200,000 in the three-month period ended April 1, 2018.
Stock repurchases under this April 2017 program were completed in the three-month period ended April 1, 2018.
In February 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of July 1, 2018, the Company had repurchased 1,553,000 shares at a cost of $76,108,000 under this program, leaving a remaining authorized balance of $73,892,000.
Total stock repurchases in the six-month period ended July 1, 2018 amounted to $121,308,000.
The Company may repurchase shares under this program in future periods depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things, the impact of dilution from employee stock options, stock price, share availability, and cash requirements.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
On December 22, 2017, the United States Congress passed and the President signed into law the Tax Act.
The Tax Act included a decrease in the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings, and limits on certain deductions.
The Company made what it considers to be a reasonable estimate of the impact of the Tax Act in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company has not recorded any changes to this estimate for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No.
118 to provide guidance to companies on how to implement the accounting and disclosure changes as a result of the Tax Act.
The SEC staff guidance has recognized that, due to the complexity and timing of the release of the Tax Act, the accounting for this change in the law may be incomplete upon issuance of a company's financial statements.
This significant estimate is highly judgmental and changes to this estimate could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.
U.S. Treasury regulations and administrative guidance have not been finalized as of the date of these financial statements.
The issuance of final regulations may require the Company to revise its estimates of earnings and profits, as well as certain deferred taxes as required.
The Tax Act subjects the Company to current tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries.
The Company can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI resulting from those items in the year the tax is incurred.
As of the date of this report, the Company is still evaluating the guidance and has not made a policy election related to the treatment of the GILTI tax.
The Company will continue to gather and analyze information on historical unrepatriated foreign earnings and to monitor state laws relating to this income to finalize both the federal and state tax impact.
The majority of income earned outside of the United States is permanently reinvested to provide funds for international expansion.
The Company is tax resident in numerous jurisdictions around the world and has identified its major jurisdictions as the United States, Ireland, and China.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China, compared to the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21%.
International rights to certain of the Company's intellectual property are held by a subsidiary whose legal jurisdiction does not tax this income, resulting in a foreign effective tax rate that is lower than the above mentioned statutory rates, although the reduced taxes overseas have been partially offset by changes in U.S. tax law.
These differences resulted in a decrease in the effective tax rate by 7 percentage points for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018, and a decrease in the effective tax rate by 18 percentage points for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 2, 2017.
The excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises resulted in a decrease of the effective tax rate by 1 and 9 percentage points for the three-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, respectively, and a decrease of the effective tax rate by 5 and 19 percentage points for the six-month periods ended July 1, 2018 and July 2, 2017, respectively.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2016-16, "Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory."
This Update requires the recognition of deferred income taxes for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory.
As a result of this ASU, the Company recorded $5,961,000 through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings at the beginning of fiscal year 2018.
COGNEX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
During the six-month period ended July 1, 2018, the Company recorded a $879,000 increase in reserves for income taxes, net of deferred tax benefit.
Estimated interest and penalties included in these amounts totaled $136,000 for the six-month period ended July 1, 2018.
The Company’s reserve for income taxes, including gross interest and penalties, was $8,427,000 as of July 1, 2018, which included $7,399,000 classified as a non-current liability and $1,028,000 recorded as a reduction to non-current deferred tax assets.
The amount of gross interest and penalties included in these balances was $924,000.
If the Company’s tax positions were sustained or the statutes of limitations related to certain positions expired, these reserves would be released and income tax expense would be reduced in a future period.
As a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, there is a potential that a portion of these reserves could be released, which would decrease income tax expense by approximately $1,100,000 to $1,200,000 over the next twelve months.
The Company has defined its major tax jurisdictions as the United States, Ireland, and China, and within the United States, Massachusetts.
Within the United States, the tax years 2014 through 2017 remain open to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and various state tax authorities.
The tax years 2013 through 2017 remain open to examination by various taxing authorities in other jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Stock options to purchase 2,959,000 and 2,032,000 shares of common stock, on a weighted-average basis, were outstanding during the three-month and six-month periods ended July 1, 2018, respectively, and 3,792,000 and 2,715,000 for the same periods in 2017, but were not included in the calculation of dilutive net income per share because they were anti-dilutive.
On July 30, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.045 per share.
The dividend is payable August 31, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 17, 2018.
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
While we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, we believe that any liability arising from them will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
For a list of factors that could affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, see the risk factors discussion provided in Part I—Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
