ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “believes,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “will,” “may,” “shall,” “could,” “should,” and similar words and other statements of a similar sense.
These statements are based upon our current estimates and expectations as to prospective events and circumstances, which may or may not be in our control and as to which there can be no firm assurances given.
These forward-looking statements, which include statements regarding business and market trends, future financial performance, customer order rates and timing of related revenue, expected areas of growth, emerging markets, future product mix, research and development activities, investments, strategic plans and tax matters, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Such risks and uncertainties include: (1) the loss of a large customer; (2) current and future conditions in the global economy, including the imposition of tariffs or export controls; (3) the reliance on revenue from the consumer electronics or automotive industries; (4) the inability to penetrate new markets; (5) the inability to achieve significant international revenue; (6) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments; (7) information security breaches or business system disruptions; (8) the inability to attract and retain skilled employees; (9) the failure to effectively manage our growth; (10) the reliance upon key suppliers to manufacture and deliver critical components for our products; (11) the failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand; (12) the inability to design and manufacture high-quality products; (13) the technological obsolescence of current products and the inability to develop new products; (14) the failure to properly manage the distribution of products and services; (15) the inability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property; (16) our involvement in time-consuming and costly litigation; (17) the impact of competitive pressures; (18) the challenges in integrating and achieving expected results from acquired businesses; (19) potential impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill; and (20) exposure to additional tax liabilities.
The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive and we encourage readers to refer to the detailed discussion of risk factors included in Part I - Item 1A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
The Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date such statements are made.
Executive Overview

Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Cognex machine vision is primarily used to automate manufacturing and distribution processes in a variety of industries where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Cognex products are also used to automate distribution processes in the logistics industry for applications in retail distribution and ecommerce to scan, track, and sort goods through distribution centers.
Revenue for the second quarter of 2019 totaled $199,047,000, representing a decrease of 6% from the second quarter of 2018.
Strong sales in the logistics industry were offset by lower sales in the consumer electronics and automotive industries, as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained consistent at 74% for each of the second quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Operating expenses in the second quarter of 2019 increased by 3% over the second quarter of 2018 due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans.
Operating income was 26% of revenue in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 30% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018; net income was 24% of revenue in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 27% of revenue in the second quarter of 2018; and net income per diluted share was $0.28 in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $0.32 in the second quarter of 2018.
Results of Operations

As foreign currency exchange rates are a factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a constant-currency basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods.
We also use results on a constant-currency basis as one measure to evaluate our performance.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Revenue

Revenue decreased by $12,217,000, or 6%, for the three-month period and decreased by $8,300,000, or 2%, for the six-month period.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a decrease in revenue of approximately 3 percentage points in both periods, as sales denominated in Euros and Chinese Yuan were translated to U.S.
Dollars at a lower rate.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, constant-currency revenue decreased by 3% for the three-month period and increased by 1% for the six-month period.
Strong sales in the logistics industry were offset by lower sales in the consumer electronics and automotive industries, as described by region below.
Sales to customers based in the Americas increased by 9% for the three-month period and 10% for the six-month period driven by higher sales in the logistics industry, partially offset by lower sales in the automotive industry.
Sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 16% for the three-month period and 6% for the six-month period, with changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounting for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in both periods.
On a constant-currency basis, sales to customers based in Europe decreased by 10% for the three-month period and were relatively flat for the six-month period.
Lower sales in the consumer electronics industry drove the decrease in both periods, which was offset by higher sales in the logistics industry for the six-month period.
Sales to customers based in Greater China decreased by 13% for the three-month period and 14% for the six-month period, with changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounting for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in both periods.
On a constant-currency basis, sales to customers based in Greater China decreased by 7% for the three-month period and 8% for the six-month period.
Sales to customers based in other regions in Asia decreased by 7% for the three-month period and 6% for the six-month period.
The decline for both periods in Greater China and other Asia was due to lower sales in the consumer electronics industry.
As of the date of this report, we expect revenue for the third quarter of 2019 to decrease from both the $199 million we reported in the second quarter of 2019 and the $232 million we reported in the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease from the third quarter of 2018 is expected to come from significantly lower revenue in the consumer electronics industry, primarily related to smartphone manufacturing.
Delays and reductions in capital spending from a broad base of factory automation customers, including those in the automotive industry, are also expected to contribute to the decrease from the prior year, offset by expected growth in the logistics industry.
The decrease from the second quarter of 2019 is expected to come from seasonal softness we typically experience in the third quarter outside of the consumer electronics industry.
As of the date of this report, we believe this year’s sequential decline will be more pronounced than the prior year given current uncertainties around global growth and trade.
Gross Margin

Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 74% for both the three-month and six-month periods in 2019 compared to 74% and 75% for the same quarters in 2018.
The decline in the gross margin percentage for the six-month period was due primarily to the unfavorable absorption of manufacturing overhead costs, as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue, as the majority of our cost of revenue is based in U.S.
Dollars.
As of the date of this report, we expect the gross margin percentage to be in the mid 70s range for the third quarter of 2019, slightly lower than the gross margin percentage we reported in the second quarter of 2019.
Operating Expenses





Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses




Non-operating Income (Expense)

The Company recorded foreign currency gains of $140,000 and foreign currency losses of $108,000 for the three-month and six-month periods in 2019, respectively, compared to foreign currency losses of $195,000 and $329,000 for the same periods in 2018.
Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another.
Investment income increased by $1,664,000, or 47%, for the three-month period and increased by $3,329,000, or 49%, for the six-month period.
The increase was due to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, and to a lesser extent additional funds available for investment.
The Company recorded other expense of $144,000 and other income of $783,000 for the three-month and six-month periods in 2019, respectively, compared to other expense of $246,000 and other income of $31,000 for the same periods in 2018.
Other income (expense) includes fair value adjustments of contingent consideration liabilities arising from business acquisitions.
Income Tax Expense

The Company’s effective tax rate was 14% and 12% of pre-tax income for the three-month and six-month periods in 2019, respectively, compared to 16% and 11% for the same periods in 2018.
The effective tax rate included a decrease in tax expense of $1,248,000 and $3,978,000 for the three-month and six-month periods in 2019, respectively, and $654,000 and $5,589,000 for the same periods in 2018 primarily from the excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises.
The Company cannot predict the level of stock option exercises by employees in future periods.
Excluding the impact of these discrete tax events, the Company’s effective tax rate was 17% of pre-tax income for both three-month periods and 16% for both six-month periods.
The Company is tax resident in numerous jurisdictions around the world and has identified its major tax jurisdictions as the United States, Ireland, and China.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China, compared to the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21%.
International rights to certain of the Company’s intellectual property are held by a subsidiary whose legal jurisdiction does not tax this income, resulting in a foreign effective tax rate lower than the above mentioned statutory rates, although the reduced taxes overseas have been partially offset by changes in U.S. tax law.
The European Union has initiated a series of tax reform legislation over the past few years that may have an impact on the Company’s tax provision and related filings in future periods.
The Company is reviewing the legislation but has not determined the impact to future periods or whether changes to its tax structure will be made.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company has historically been able to generate positive cash flow from operations, which has funded its operating activities and other cash requirements and has resulted in an accumulated cash and investment balance of $861,623,000 as of June 30, 2019.
The Company has established guidelines relative to credit ratings, diversification, and maturities of its investments that maintain liquidity.
The Company’s cash requirements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily met with positive cash flows from operations.
Cash requirements consisted of operating activities, the repurchase of common stock, the payment of dividends, and capital expenditures.
Operating cash inflows included a reduction in accounts receivable from the collection of a significant amount due from a material customer in the consumer electronics industry, as well as a reduction in inventory levels.
Operating cash outflows included the payment of company bonuses that were earned and accrued in 2018.
Capital expenditures during the six months ended June 30, 2019 totaled $8,969,000 and consisted of computer hardware and software, manufacturing test equipment related to new product introductions, and improvements made to the Company's headquarters building in Natick, Massachusetts and various leased facilities.
In October 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 1,601,000 shares at a cost of $70,312,000 under this program, including 1,398,000 shares at a cost of $61,690,000 during the six-months ended June 30, 2019.
The Company may repurchase shares under this program in future periods, up to the remaining balance of $129,688,000, depending on a variety of factors, including, among other things, the impact of dilution from employee stock options, stock price, share availability, and cash requirements.
The Company’s Board of Directors declared and paid a cash dividend of $0.05 per share in both the first and second quarters of 2019, amounting to $17,146,000.
Future dividends will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as the Board deems relevant including, among other things, the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows from operations.
The Company believes that its existing cash and investment balances, together with cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet its operating, investing, and financing activities for the next twelve months.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had $861,623,000 in cash and investments.
In addition, the Company has no long-term debt and does 


not anticipate needing debt financing in the near future.
We believe that our strong cash position has put us in a relatively good position with respect to our longer-term liquidity needs.
New Pronouncements

Refer to Part I - Note 2 within this Form 10-Q, for a full description of recently issued accounting pronouncements including the expected dates of adoption and the expected impact on the financial position and results of operations of the Company.
