Forward-Looking Statements

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the “Report”), including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“FLIR” or the “Company”) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions about the Company’s business. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “sees,” “estimates” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” section in Part II, Item 1A of this Report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, and elsewhere in this Report as well as those discussed from time to time in the Company’s other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry, economic, and market conditions. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report, or for changes made to this document by wire services or Internet service providers. If the Company updates or corrects one or more forward-looking statements, investors and others should not conclude that the Company will make additional updates or corrections with respect to other forward-looking statements.

The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.

