Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on that evaluation, as detailed below, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are not effective.
Beginning January 1, 2018, we implemented ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Although the adoption of the new revenue standard had an immaterial impact on our ongoing net income, we implemented changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the control activities within these processes.
These included the development of new policies based on the five-step model provided in the new revenue standard, new training, ongoing contract review requirements, and gathering of information provided for disclosures.
There was no other change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective for the item noted below.
Long-lived Asset Impairment Testing.
Based on management’s testing and evaluation, we determined that we did not design and maintain effective internal control over the step one goodwill impairment testing that we performed in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other and ASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, as of April 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Specifically, the Company’s review control did not operate at a sufficient level of precision to identify the improper assumptions used in our impairment analyses.
We concluded that this lack of review in sufficient detail of the analyses was a material weakness in our internal controls.
We wrote off the JDL reporting unit goodwill in the second quarter of 2017 and have no remaining recorded goodwill.
If we record goodwill in the future, however, we will need to implement and maintain internal controls to ensure we complete our goodwill impairment analysis in a timely manner and with adequate detail.
In addition, we have performed additional procedures related to the Company’s long-lived asset impairment analysis and concluded that our failure to adequately review our impairment analysis in sufficient detail did not result in misstatements within the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
We concluded, however, that there was a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in the Company’s consolidated financial statements may not have been prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Remediation Plan in Response to Material Weakness
To address the above, we are in the process of designing new review controls to value our business units to ensure that goodwill and long-lived asset impairment analyses are completed in a timely manner and in enough detail to operate at a sufficient level of precision to identify improper assumptions.
 (a)Inherent Limitations on Control Systems
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, will be or have been detected.
These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake.
Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control.
The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information
Not Applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
 31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Exchange Act).
 31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Exchange Act).
 32.Certifications pursuant Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.
§1350).
 99.1Communications Systems, Inc. Press Release dated November 7, 2018 announcing 2018 Third Quarter Results.
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
