fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
See Note 13, Commitment and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had 382 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of restricted cash and investments was $55.3 million, of which $28.8 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $26.5 million was included in other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.


item2.txt
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista, HPE, and Huawei.
In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis.


