fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Accordingly, they do not include all information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise.
The purchase consideration consisted of cash of $354.5 million and $4.7 million in share-based awards attributable to services prior to the acquisition.
The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences.
The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies from future growth and will not be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and were expensed in the period incurred within general and administrative expense in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material.
The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are subject to change relate to certain legal and income tax matters.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.


