Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of June 30, 2018, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
The adjustments, relating primarily to accumulated earnings taxes of a foreign operation, increased the income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 by $2,071.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Consequently, the Company owns the assets and the related offsetting liability for disbursement until a participant makes a qualifying withdrawal.The enactment of the Tax Act in the United States in December 2017 facilitated our repatriation of a substantial amount of non-U.S. cash during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2018.
Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $150.4 million, which represented an increase of 17.6% from the third quarter of fiscal 2017, with revenue in dielectrics slurries, polishing pads and tungsten slurries increasing 21.0%, 18.9% and 17.5%, respectively, from the same quarter last year.
Gross margin, representing gross profit as a percentage of revenue, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 53.6%, compared to 48.9% for our third quarter of fiscal 2017, both periods of which included 90-basis points of adverse impact of NexPlanar amortization expense.
Gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was 53.0% of revenue, compared to 49.7% during the same period last year, which includes 90 and 100-basis points of adverse impact of NexPlanar amortization expense, comparatively.While we are not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we periodically become a party to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.