The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of March 31, 2019, cash flows for the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, and results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
This Report on Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 we recognized a $933 decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings, net of tax, due to the cumulative impact of adopting the new revenue standards.
For free products, the new revenue standards require that a portion of the transaction price be allocated to the free product and deferred until the product has been delivered.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards.
As a result, for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards.
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.In the Electronic Materials segment, our CMP slurries revenue declined this quarter due primarily to softer market conditions, particularly in the memory, but also in the foundry, sectors.
With continued growth expected in U.S. oil production, primarily in the Permian basin as well as expansion internationally, we continue to experience strong demand for our drag-reducing agents, which enable pipeline operators to optimize the efficiency and throughput of oil transport.
Revenue for our second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $265.4 million, which benefited from the acquisition of KMG and represented an increase of 85.6% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
For the same reasons, diluted earnings per share decreased from $1.14 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.92 in the current quarter.The information set forth in Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
For instance, we could experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us, or our production process could be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us.
Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.