Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).
Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Except as disclosed in the following paragraph, there were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act, that occurred during the period covered by this quarterly report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
The Company adopted the new revenue recognition guidance under Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The adoption required the Company to establish new accounting policies and implement new accounting processes, including internal controls necessary to have reasonable assurance that the new accounting policy and process objectives are met.
These processes and the related internal controls are newly designed and implemented this quarter and were not subject to the Company’s most recent annual evaluation and assessment of internal control over financial reporting.
Additionally, the preparation of the financial statements and related notes included in this quarterly report are the first period these controls have operated.
Significant changes arising from the adoption of Topic 606 include a new revenue recognition software system to measure periodic revenue, interfaces between the new IT system and the Company’s legacy IT systems, processes to estimate stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, additional or modified controls to identify performance obligations in its contracts, validate data accuracy in its IT systems, and identify and separately account for customer contract modifications.
As a result of the foregoing, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the changes in the Company’s internal controls and processes to meet the requirements of Topic 606 had a material effect on its internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain legal proceedings, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS

Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described in more detail in our 2018 Form 10-K.
There were no material changes to such risk factors, except to include the risk factors described below.
Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and stock price.
The announcement and pendency of our agreement to be acquired by Broadcom may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.
•Disruption to our business, including increased costs and diversion of management time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us;

•The restrictions imposed on our business and operations pursuant to certain covenants set forth in the Merger Agreement, which may prevent us from pursuing certain opportunities, responding to competitive pressures and industry developments, or taking certain actions without Broadcom’s approval;

•Adverse effects on our ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about their future roles following completion of the proposed transaction, and the possibility that our employees could lose productivity as a result of uncertainty regarding their employment following the proposed transaction;

•The pendency and outcome of the legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, our directors, executive officers and others relating to the proposed transaction; and

•The diversion of our employees’ attention due to activities related to the proposed transaction.
The failure to complete our pending acquisition by Broadcom may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and stock price.
•Any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed transaction, including adverse changes in our relationships with customers, suppliers, channel partners, other business partners and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the acquisition is not consummated or is significantly delayed;

•We would have incurred significant costs, including professional services fees and other transaction costs, in connection with the proposed transaction that we would be unable to recover;

•We may have to pay Broadcom a termination fee of $566 million under certain circumstances that give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement;

•We may be subject to negative publicity or be negatively perceived by the investment or business communities;

•We may be subject to legal proceedings related to the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement;

•We may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures; and

•We may experience a departure of employees.
The Merger Agreement with Broadcom limits our ability to pursue alternative transactions, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.
The Merger Agreement contains provisions that limit our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition transaction.
These or other provisions may discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire us than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.
Item 2.
Item 4.
Item 5.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
