ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Please see the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I for important information to consider when evaluating such statements.
We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018.
Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly.
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
In fiscal 2018 we acquired TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 26
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business.
We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results as well as our future prospects.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
About Intuit
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 27
Industry Trends and Seasonality
Industry Trends
The rapid expansion of cloud-based services is creating a more dynamic and highly competitive software industry.
High availability and speed of service are reshaping customer expectations around the world.
These shifts are accelerating product introductions and enhancements.
Among cloud-based service companies, free business models and micro-job solutions are also becoming more prevalent within the industry.
Personalization and data-driven insights, augmented by artificial intelligence and machine learning, are transforming the way that people manage their financial lives.
Seasonality
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
Key Challenges and Risks
Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market.
Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships.
To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data.
We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings.
We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 28
For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report.
Overview of Financial Results
The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations.
We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below.
These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses.
Online service offerings are a significant part of our business.
Our total service and other revenue was $4.4 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2018 and we expect our total service and other revenue to continue to grow in the future.
We ended the first nine months of fiscal 2019 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $3.3 billion.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Below, we have updated our revenue recognition critical accounting policy for the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Other than the changes to our revenue recognition critical accounting policy, we believe that there were no other significant changes in the critical accounting policies and estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018, during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process.
These judgments and estimates include (1) identifying performance obligations in the contract; (2) determining whether the performance obligations
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 29
are distinct; (3) determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation; (4) determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations; and (5) estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price.
If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period.
For additional information, see “Revenue Recognition” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Current Fiscal Quarter
Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $183 million or 11% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase was due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.
See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income increased $192 million or 16% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act).
See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Diluted net income per share increased 15% to $5.22 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, in line with the increase in net income.
Fiscal Year to Date
Operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $247 million or 14% compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
The increase was due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.
See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income increased $234 million or 17% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2019 period, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act.
See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Diluted net income per share increased 15% to $6.06 for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, due to the increase in net income.
Segment Results
The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments.
See “Executive Overview – About Intuit” earlier in this Item 2 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States.
International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 30
Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses.
See “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business.
Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments.
These unallocated costs totaled $1.3 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2019 period due to increased corporate product development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses.
Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets which totaled $19 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and $14 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
See Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 31
Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses.
Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies.
Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem.
Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services.
Online Ecosystem
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 38% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 39% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 42% in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer.
At April 30, 2019 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 4.2 million, up 32% compared with the same point in time a year ago.
Online Services revenue increased 33% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 36% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 32
Desktop Ecosystem
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily driven by customer growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise, payroll, and payments offerings.
QuickBooks Desktop subscribers were up 9% as compared with the same point in time a year ago.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to an increase in license revenue for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering and an increase in revenue from our payroll and payments offerings as a result of customer growth during the period.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 33
 Consumer
Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates.
Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online products, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $262 million or 11% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018, due to a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings, a 5% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer.
Segment operating income increased 10% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to the higher revenue described above, which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 34
 Strategic Partner
Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates.
Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased $18 million or 4% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
Segment operating income increased 9% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to the higher revenue described above and lower staffing expenses.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 35
Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred.
Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
Current Fiscal Quarter
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018.
Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $360 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $128 million or 13%.
Total operating expenses increased $75 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, $27 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $23 million for outside services.
Fiscal Year to Date
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased slightly in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018.
Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $629 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the period increased $245 million or 9%.
Total operating expenses increased $152 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, $56 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $37 million for outside services.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Interest Expense
Interest expense of $12 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan.
Interest expense of $16 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 36
Interest and Other Income, Net
Income Taxes
We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 have been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” See Note 1 and Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information.
For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $20 million and $69 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes.
For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $8 million and $41 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 were approximately 23% and 21%, respectively.
Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits mentioned above, our effective tax rate for both periods was 23% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 21%.
Our effective tax rates for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was approximately 26% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%.
Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 was 22%.
Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to the $27 million tax benefit resulting from the 2017 Tax Act re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances and the share-based compensation tax benefits mentioned above, our effective tax rate for that period was 27% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Overview
At April 30, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $3.3 billion, an increase of $1.6 billion from July 31, 2018 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below.
Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility.
Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends.
As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality.
The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern.
We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 37
We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $3.3 billion at April 30, 2019.
None of those funds were restricted and approximately 92% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases.
At April 30, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility.
Our secured revolving credit facility is available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses.
At April 30, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility.
We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies.
Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months.
We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
Statements of Cash Flows
Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock
As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized.
At April 30, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.8 billion for stock repurchases.
We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 38
stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2019 we declared quarterly cash dividends that totaled $1.41 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $376 million.
In May 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock payable on July 18, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 10, 2019.
We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
Credit Facilities
Unecured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion.
The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021.
Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times.
Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
At April 30, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility.
We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility.
We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016.
We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate.
The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 2017, of 2.5% of the original loan amount, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021.
At April 30, 2019, $400 million was outstanding under the term loan.
The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.
We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended April 30, 2019.
On May 2, 2019 we entered into an amendment to the master credit agreement.
The amendment extends the maturity date of the unsecured revolving credit facility to May 2, 2024 and modifies the interest rate on the unsecured revolving credit facility to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.1% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.69% to 1.1%.
Additionally, the amendment modifies the unsecured term loan to $400 million, decreases the interest rate on the term loan to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.625% to 1.125% and reduces the amount available to increase commitments under the term loan to $400 million in the aggregate.
Actual margins under the unsecured revolving credit facility and term loan continue to be based on our senior unsecured debt credit ratings.
Secured Revolving Credit Facility
On February 19, 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender.
The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this secured revolving credit facility are used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses.
The secured revolving credit facility is available for use for a term of two years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.39%.
Unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.50%.
Outstanding advances mature on August 19, 2021 and payments made prior to February 19, 2020 are subject to a 1% prepayment fee.
The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios.
We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended April 30, 2019.
At April 30, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under this facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 8.06%, which includes the unused facility fee.
The outstanding balance is secured by cash and loans to qualified small businesses totaling $76 million.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 39
Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $3.3 billion at April 30, 2019.
Approximately 8% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations.
These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India.
As a result of the 2017 Tax Act we do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation.
We have recorded income tax expense for Canada and India withholding and distribution taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested.
In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding or distribution taxes at that time.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At April 30, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
Contractual Obligations
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended.
There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 40
ITEM 2 - UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Purchases of Equity Securities By The Issuer And Affiliated Purchasers
ITEM 6 - EXHIBITS
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 55
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 56
EXHIBIT INDEX
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 57
