ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Please see the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part 1 for important information to consider when evaluating such statements.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business.
We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results as well as our future prospects.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
About Intuit
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 22
Industry Trends and Seasonality
Industry Trends
The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future.
The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements.
Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue.
There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers.
While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase.
In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks.
The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services.
This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses.
Seasonality
Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns.
As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total consolidated revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our annual total consolidated revenue for those years.
We expect the seasonality of our Consumer business to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future.
Key Challenges and Risks
Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market.
Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships.
To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data.
We are investing significant management attention and resources in our
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 23
information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
Beginning in early calendar year 2015, state taxing authorities, the IRS, and the tax preparation industry experienced an increase in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds at the federal level and expanding into the state level.
We implemented additional security measures in our products and began working with state governments to share information regarding suspicious filings while continuing to share such information with the federal government.
We continue to invest in security and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.
For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part 1 and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report.
Overview of Financial Results
The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations.
We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below.
These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business.
Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business.
Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years.
Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.8 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017.
We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future.
We ended the first nine months of fiscal 2018 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $1.9 billion.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 24
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet.
We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates.
We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Current Fiscal Quarter
Operating income increased 12% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017.
The increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for advertising and other marketing programs, staffing, outside services, and share-based compensation.
See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income increased 24% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017 due to the increase in operating income described above and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2018 period, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act).
Diluted net income per share increased 24% to $4.59, in line with the increase in net income.
Fiscal Year to Date
Operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 12% compared with the same period of fiscal 2017.
The increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, outside services, and share-based compensation.
See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 23% due to the increase in operating income described above and a lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2018, as a result of the Tax Act.
The net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 includes a $44 million tax charge primarily related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act.
This charge was partially offset by tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information.
Diluted net income per share increased 23% to $4.47, in line with the increase in net income.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 25
Segment Results
The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments.
See “Executive Overview – About Intuit” earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States.
International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses.
See “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business.
Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments.
These unallocated costs totaled $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and $979 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2018 period due to increased corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses.
Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented.
We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands.
Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 26
Product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Desktop software products, including Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and Enterprise; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise with Hosting, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks Enterprise term licenses and QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and Intuit Full Service Payroll; and payment processing services for small businesses.
Online Ecosystem
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 41% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 39% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The revenue growth in both periods was driven by customer acquisition.
At April 30, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.2 million, up 45% compared with the same point in time a year ago.
Online Services revenue increased 27% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased 21% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to customer growth in online payroll and payments.
Desktop Ecosystem
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 3% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 7% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The increase in revenue in both periods was driven by growth in QuickBooks Enterprise subscribers and average revenue per customer.
QuickBooks Desktop units declined 8% and 18% in those periods.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 27
 Consumer
Product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $305 million or 14% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to a higher average revenue per customer, a 4% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings.
Segment operating income increased 14% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to higher revenue which was partially offset by higher expenses including staffing, advertising, and other marketing programs.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 28
 Strategic Partner
Product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax return preparation, bank products, and related services that complement the tax return preparation process.
The Strategic Partner segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing.
Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased $13 million or 4% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017.
Segment operating income increased 8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the higher revenue and relatively stable spending.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 29
Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2017.
We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred.
Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2017.
Current Fiscal Quarter
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same quarter of fiscal 2017.
Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $384 million or 15% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $146 million or 17%.
Operating expenses increased about $56 million for higher advertising and other marketing programs, $53 million for staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $12 million for outside services.
Fiscal Year to Date
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017.
Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased $641 million or 15% while total operating expenses for that period increased $348 million or 15%.
Operating expenses increased about $130 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $108 million for advertising and other marketing programs, and $44 million for outside services.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Interest Expense
Interest expense of $16 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility.
Interest expense of $28 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured revolving credit facility.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 30
Interest and Other Income, Net
Income Taxes
We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period.
Tax Cuts and Job Act
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduces the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018.
With our fiscal year ending July 31, the change will result in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal year 2018.
As a result, we adjusted our annual effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018, as well as adjusted our U.S. net deferred tax asset balance at the lower rates.
As of April 30, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act; however, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances.
We recorded a provisional charge of $39 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an additional provisional charge of $5 million related to the re-measurement of deferred tax balances, resulting in a total tax expense of $44 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
Additionally, we have made provisional estimates of the impact of the Tax Act’s changes to our fiscal 2018 annual effective tax rate for items such as meals and entertainment and executive deferred compensation deductions.
We do not expect to have any material tax impact from the foreign tax provisions of the Tax Act.
On December 22, 2017 the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance for companies that are not able to complete their accounting for the income tax effects of the Act in the period of enactment.
The guidance allows us to record provisional amounts to the extent a reasonable estimate can be made and provides us with up to one year from enactment date to finalize accounting for the impacts of the Tax Act.
Since the Tax Act was passed in Intuit’s second quarter, the deferred tax re-measurements and other items are considered provisional due to the forthcoming guidance and ongoing analysis of the final year-end data and tax positions.
The analysis is expected to be completed within the 12-month measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.
Current quarter and year to date income tax and effective tax rates
For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $8 million and $41 million in our provision for income taxes.
For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2017, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $12 million and $38 million in our provision for income taxes.
Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 was approximately 26% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%.
See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2017 were approximately 33% and 31%.
Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits, our effective tax rate for both periods was 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%.
See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 31
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Overview
At April 30, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.9 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion from July 31, 2017 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below.
Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility.
Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends.
As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality.
The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern.
We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.9 billion at April 30, 2018.
None of those funds were restricted and approximately 87% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases.
At April 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
We expect to pay approximately $320 million in income taxes during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies.
Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months.
We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
Statements of Cash Flows
The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.
See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 32
Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock
As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized.
At April 30, 2018, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.2 billion for stock repurchases.
We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock.
In May 2018 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share of outstanding common stock payable on July 18, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 10, 2018.
We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
Credit Facility
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion.
The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021.
Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times.
Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
At April 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility.
We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016.
We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate.
The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 2017, of 2.5% of the original loan amount, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021.
At April 30, 2018, $450 million was outstanding under the term loan.
The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.
We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended April 30, 2018.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 33
Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.9 billion at April 30, 2018.
Approximately 13% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations.
These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India.
We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations.
In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At April 30, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
Contractual Obligations
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2017 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended.
On September 13, 2017 we signed an agreement that includes a minimum purchase commitment of $450 million through August 31, 2022.
There were no other significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 34
ITEM 2 - UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Purchases of Equity Securities By The Issuer And Affiliated Purchasers
ITEM 6 - EXHIBITS
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 48
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 49
EXHIBIT INDEX
  Intuit Q3 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 50
