fls.txt
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
For further information concerning risk factors, see Part II.


item1.txt
We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations.
Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.
At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in British Pounds and the Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
The ineffective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value was immaterial during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
•We or L3 may waive one or more of the closing conditions without re-soliciting stockholder approval.
We voluntarily withdrew our HSR Notification effective as of December 10, 2018 and re-filed our HSR Notification on December 11, 2018.
Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We and L3 continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ on its review of the merger.
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting.


item2.txt
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”


item3.txt
We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Except as set forth below in this Item 1A.
Merger Litigation.
Other Information.


