fls.txt
Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein.


item1.txt
Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of March 30, 2018, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as the $400 million voluntary contribution made during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”).
On February 27, 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due February 27, 2019 (“Floating Rate Notes 2019”).
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017.
Entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with the option to use certain relief.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans.
•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language;
Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred.


item2.txt
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for additional information.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The FASB has issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and will be effective for us in fiscal 2019.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.


item3.txt
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.


item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date.
We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors.


