fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.


item1.txt
Hedge effectiveness is determined by the correlation of the anticipated cash flows from the hedging instruments and the anticipated cash flows from the future foreign currency commitments through the maturity dates of the derivatives used to hedge these cash flows.
See Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in these Notes for more information regarding the preliminary allocation of goodwill by reportable business segment under the revised reporting structure.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $79 million and $35 million for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.
See Note T — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for a description of the fair value hierarchy related to our foreign currency forward contracts.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge the complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for ROU assets and lease liabilities assumed as part of the L3Harris Merger.
The increase in contract assets and contract liabilities in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was primarily due to contract assets and liabilities acquired in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
Inventories at September 27, 2019 included engineering, selling and administrative costs of $39 million.
We initially applied ASC 842 for leases existing as of June 29, 2019 and recognized $270 million of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and $289 million of lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards.
More specifically, we have used foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be a fiscal transition period ending on January 3, 2020 (the “Fiscal Transition Period”).
These treasury locks were initiated in January 2019 to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with the anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”) and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of our 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021 (“2021 Notes”).
 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.


item2.txt
We evaluate the recoverability of such assets based on the expectations of undiscounted cash flows of the assets.
•We have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the L3Harris Merger.
These tax rates do not represent the combined company’s effective tax rate, which will include other tax charges and benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company following the consummation of the L3Harris Merger.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
We made a voluntary contributions of $302 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
As a result, we currently do not anticipate making any contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and we anticipate making only minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plans during the remainder of the Fiscal Transition Period.
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
As described in more detail in Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business on September 13, 2019 pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
•We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the L3Harris Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.


item3.txt
We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions.


item4.txt
During fiscal 2018 and 2019, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in four business units.


part2.txt
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Item 1A.


