fls.txt
This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
For further information concerning risk factors see Part II.


item1.txt
See Note G — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities in these Notes for additional information.
Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $16 million at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, and is included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts transfer of control of the asset to the customer.
We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value.
We record these charges at their fair value when incurred.
We have not audited and reported on the revised balance sheet reflecting the adoption of ASC 606.
A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
These variable amounts are generally awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $11 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.
If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived, either timely or at all, the merger will be delayed or will not be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.


item2.txt
Unallocated corporate expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at September 28, 2018, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
As of September 28, 2018, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $501 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date.
We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
The decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of Avionics program revenue.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.


