fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
We recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million on the sale of CapRock (a gain of $61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share).
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $34 million at December 29, 2017 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
We recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million on the sale of CapRock (a gain of $61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share).
Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 30, 2016 was not impacted by any significant discrete item.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
These divestitures individually and collectively represented a strategic shift away from non-core markets (for example, energy, maritime and government IT services).
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.


item2.txt
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
We currently anticipate making voluntary contributions of approximately $300 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
In determining BESP, we consider both market data and entity-specific factors, including market conditions, the geographies in which our products are sold, our competitive position and strategy, and our profit objectives.
During the first two quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $150 million to repurchase 1,153,811 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $130.10, including commissions of $.02 per share.
In the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, $10 million and $19 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 3.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.


