fls.txt
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.


item1.txt
corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments and the elimination of intersegment profits.
Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.
L3 is also a provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms.
Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will each have reduced ownership and voting interest in and will exercise less influence over management of the combined company.
 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.
•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.
For the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, we recognized revenue of $53 million and $163 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris Corporation will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc., which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or in the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Although the registration statement has not yet been declared effective, we urge you to read it and any amendments and supplements thereto, because they contain important information about the pending merger, including relevant risk factors.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain.


item2.txt
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices.
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
The increase in segment operating income in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and comparability of segment operating margin percentage reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
During the first two quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.
Other Information.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Item 1A.


