fls.txt



item1.txt
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million.
The strike price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
consolidated financial statements.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $10.6 million and $7.7 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.
The remaining earn-out periods end on December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Teradyne incurred $2.3 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of MiR was increased by $3.0 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
Realized losses recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
The estimated decrease is composed of reserves relating to local tax incentives.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
 considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.


item2.txt
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $59.5 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $22.8 million decrease in income taxes, an $11.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.7 million increase in accounts payable, and a $6.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we sold $0.8 million and $2.2 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively.
This was due to a $162.4 million increase in operating assets and a $50.2 million decrease in operating liabilities.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.


item3.txt
These transactions have been accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders’ equity.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.


