fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was 13.6% and 14.7%, respectively.
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment.
The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance.
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.


item2.txt
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.
Other (income) expense, net increased by $2.6 million due primarily to higher foreign exchange losses in 2018.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.2 points, primarily due to favorable product mix.
As of September 30, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or written-off totaling $104.3 million.
During the three months ended October 1, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $1.9 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels for certain products.
Investing activities during the nine months ended October 1, 2017 used cash of $188.3 million, due to $1,036.5 million used for purchases of marketable securities and $73.2 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by $473.3 million and $443.2 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, and proceeds from property insurance of $5.1 million related to the Japan earthquake.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
Other (income) expense, net increased by $2.6 million due primarily to higher foreign exchange losses in 2018.


item3.txt
These transactions have been accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders’ equity.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.


