fls.txt



item1.txt
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
Teradyne makes no significant judgements in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $15.7 million, acquired intangible assets of $10.9 million with an average estimated useful life of 6.1 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
 (3) Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.
The interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at Teradyne’s option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.00% per annum or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% per annum, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of Teradyne and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.5 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.58 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.
Of this value, $62.1 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $828.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.9 million for less than one year.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital.


item2.txt
The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we scrapped $0.3 million and $1.8 million of inventory, respectively.
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other (income) expense, net by the same amount with zero impact to net income.
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.


item3.txt
These transactions have been accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders’ equity.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our business operations are international and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.


