RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.
available-for-sale securities held at June 30, 2019 exclude $3.3 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
 upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
 for the 2018 grant.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Based on its analysis of those criteria, Teradyne concluded that the convertible note hedge should be recorded in equity and no further adjustment should be made in future periods to adjust the value of the convertible note hedge.
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.9 points, primarily due to favorable product mix in Semiconductor Test and System Test.
on-order inventory positions.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 was 25.8% and 15.8%, respectively.
Other (income) expense, net increased by $2.2 million due primarily to higher foreign exchange losses and higher pension costs.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share.