fls.txt



item1.txt
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
As of July 1, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $87.1 million, which will be amortized over 5.5 years using the effective interest rate method.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.1 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $1.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Corporate and Industrial Automation, and a $1.3 million charge for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended July 2, 2017 was $15.1 million, or $0.07 per diluted share.
consolidated financial statements.
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
During the six months ended July 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.1 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $1.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Corporate and Industrial Automation, and a $1.3 million charge for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017.
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.


item2.txt
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
 customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
Financing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 used cash of $418.1 million, due to $360.8 million used for the repurchase of 8.8 million shares of common stock at an average price of $40.82 per share, $34.7 million used for dividend payments, $19.8 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
In January 2017 and May 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
Investing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 provided cash of $418.5 million, due to $829.1 million and $469.9 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $647.1 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $170.6 million used for acquisitions of MiR and Energid, and $62.7 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $27.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $26.3 million decrease in income taxes, and $2.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $14.7 million increase in accounts payable, a $10.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, and a $4.5 million increase in other accrued liabilities.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.


item3.txt
The change in stock price affects the fair value of the convertible senior notes, but does not impact Teradyne’s financial position, cash flows or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligation.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.


