The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three months ended August 31, 2018 presented the historical results of Oracle as we did not complete any material acquisitions during the first three months of fiscal 2019.  
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and the full fiscal year of 2018, we acquired certain other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate.  
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware  
We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e. in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications, platform and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products  
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications licenses revenues. Platform and infrastructure revenues represent the sum of platform and infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and platform and infrastructure licenses revenues. 
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to lower expenses.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment. 
In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the increase in total revenues; and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat.  
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business. 
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.  
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount. In addition, our constant currency cloud services and license support expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to higher technology infrastructure expenses that supported the growth in our revenues.  
Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to growth in our cloud and license revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was due to the reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to declines in our consulting services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 54%, 38% and 8%, respectively, to the growth in our first quarter of fiscal 2019 total revenues.  
On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher transitional employee related costs. Item 2.  