We have three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models, including our cloud services and license support offerings, and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also includes related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and full year of fiscal 2019, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications related license revenues. Infrastructure ecosystem revenues represent the sum of infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and infrastructure related license revenues. 
We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment. 
The following table is a summary of our total revenues by geographic region. The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we issued 39 million restricted stock-based units (RSUs), substantially all of which were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions. These fiscal 2020 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 6 million shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 due to the increase in our total revenues.  
In constant currency, total margin for our hardware segment decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decline in revenues for this segment. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to lower expenses. 
In constant currency, total services expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to the decrease in revenues for this business. 
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher sales and marketing expenses, each of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount and due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.  
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues remained flat. 
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, which was primarily attributable to lower average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
Net cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to decreased stock repurchases as we repurchased $5.0 billion of common stock in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $10.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and due to lower debt repayments in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support contracts in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice. The Americas region contributed 33%, the EMEA region contributed 33%, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 34% of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Item 2.  