Fiscal 2017 Acquisition of NetSuite Inc., a Related Party  
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 as we did not complete any material acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  
We have three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment.  
On November 7, 2016, we completed our acquisition of NetSuite Inc. (NetSuite), a provider of cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) software and related applications and a related party to Oracle. We acquired NetSuite to, among other things, expand our cloud software as a service offerings with a complementary set of cloud ERP and related cloud software applications for customers.  
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems including the Oracle Solaris operating system and management software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also includes hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
 others, for cloud and other IT environments. Customers that license our software have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases, patch releases, internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel during the support period.  
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we entered into certain non-material agreements to acquire certain companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.  
We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment.  In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.  
In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in our total revenues and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat.  
Total services expenses were flat in constant currency in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business.  
In constant currency, total services expenses were flat during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, while total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly.  
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as expenses decreased at a rate faster than our revenues for this business.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and on-premise software segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the increases in revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in revenues, and was flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads. We expect these trends to continue. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models. We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them.  
In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.  
Our cloud and on-premise software business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.  
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services.  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  