We have three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. 
our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
During the first half of fiscal 2020 and full year of fiscal 2019, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models, including our cloud services and license support offerings, and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also include related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in  
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications related license revenues. Infrastructure ecosystem revenues represent the sum of infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and infrastructure related license revenues. 
We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment. 
The following table is a summary of our total revenues by geographic region. The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented. 
Circuit denied the July 22, 2019 en banc rehearing request. Our financial statements have been prepared consistent with this outcome, but we will continue to monitor any ongoing developments, including a potential future appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, to determine if future changes are required. In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased slightly during the fiscal 2020 periods presented due to the constant currency increases in our total revenues.  
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware business increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower expenses. 
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the revenue declines and expense increases for this business in the fiscal 2020 periods presented. 
We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services. 
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; over those four quarterly periods.  
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the first half of fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in the sales and maturities of, and a decrease in the purchases of, marketable securities and other investments during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business’ total margins increased during the fiscal 2020 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2020 increases in revenues for this business, while total fiscal 2020 margins as a percentage of revenues remained flat in constant currency. 
Net cash used for financing activities in the first half of fiscal 2020 decreased compared to the first half of fiscal 2019 primarily due to decreased stock repurchases as we repurchased $10.0 billion of common stock in the first half of fiscal 2020 compared to $20.0 billion in the first half of fiscal 2019. This cash favorable variance to our financing activities during the first half of fiscal 2020 was partially offset by increased debt repayments made during the first half of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period. Item 2.  