Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware  
During the first half of fiscal 2019 and the full fiscal year of 2018, we acquired certain other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. 
We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
On March 28, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Aconex Limited (Aconex), a provider of cloud-based collaboration software for construction projects.  
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications, platform and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e. in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
The following table presents a summary of our cloud and license business revenues by ecosystem. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications licenses revenues. Platform and infrastructure revenues represent the sum of platform and infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and platform and infrastructure licenses revenues. 
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. 
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to the increases in total revenues.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2019 increases in revenues for this segment, while total fiscal 2019 margins as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically  
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower expenses. 
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services. 
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies. The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to declines in our consulting services and education services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 11% and 35%, respectively, 44% and 40%, respectively, and 45% and 25%, respectively, to the growth in our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 total revenues, respectively.  
Net cash used for financing activities in the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the first half of fiscal 2018 due primarily to increased stock repurchases as we repurchased $20.0 billion of common stock in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.5 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018. Item 1A.  