During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the full fiscal year of 2018, we acquired certain other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. 
We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. 
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. 
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for customer cloud-based, on-premise or other IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term.  
compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Our effective tax rates were 11.1% and 12.6%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and 226.8% and 96.4%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively.  
Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.  
On March 28, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Aconex Limited (Aconex), a provider of cloud-based collaboration software for construction projects.  
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and also includes related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. In each fiscal year, our cloud and license business’ contractual activities are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and the related cash flows are typically highest in the following quarter (i.e., in the first fiscal quarter of the next fiscal year) as we receive payments from these contracts. 
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset primarily by decreases in our hardware revenues. The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 28% and 33%, respectively, 32% and 37%, respectively, and 40% and 30%, respectively, to the growth in our total revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively.  
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses and external contractor expenses associated with our consulting offerings. In constant currency, total margin increased slightly during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period, while total margin as a percentage of total services revenues was constant during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. 
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, each of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount and due to higher technology infrastructure expenses.  
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses.  
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. 
contributions from our acquisitions. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases of and renewals of cloud-based services and license support services in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, and was also due to contributions from our recent acquisitions. In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice. The Americas region contributed 33% and 36%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 34% and 34%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 33% and 30%, respectively, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively. Item 2.  