For additional information, refer to Part 1, Item 1, "Business", in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
The adjustments, relating primarily to accumulated earnings taxes of a foreign operation, increased the income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 by $2,071.
The Company has a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an inactive market, or other observable inputs.
Level 3 inputs consist of valuations based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity.
See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.We assume no obligation to update this forward-looking information.
This was driven in part by our memory customers' migration from 2D to 3D NAND, which requires more CMP processing steps.
Additionally, continued capacity expansions in 3D NAND, primarily in Korea and China, should continue to provide future growth opportunities for us.
We believe we remain well positioned to benefit from these long-term demand trends.While we are not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we periodically become a party to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.