item1.txt
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
When we invoice for products shipped under these contracts, we defer the revenue associated with these rights on the balance sheet as a contract liability.
ASC 606 did not change the accounting for rebates under ASC 605.
Agents are paid the commissions after funds are received by the Company from its customers.
However, as a practical expedient, the Company does not capitalize commissions as the associated contracts are generally one year or less in duration.
2016-02, "Leases" (Topic 842).
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases.
2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326).
We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements.
The provisions of ASU 2017-07 provided specific guidance on the presentation of the components of net benefit cost.
2017-09 "Scope of Modification Accounting" (Topic 718).
Therefore, unrealized changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.
We will perform subsequent assessments of hedge effectiveness qualitatively on a quarterly basis.


item2.txt
In our Performance Materials segment, we continue to record strong revenue this quarter, primarily driven by higher demand for our drag-reducing agents.
Revenue was $271.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an 80.7%, or $121.4 million, increase from the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $10.1 million, or 6.7%, primarily due to lower sales volume, partially offset by a higher value product mix.
The increase resulted from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
Revenue was $759.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, which represented a 75.1%, or $325.7 million increase from the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition.
Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased slightly by $9.0 million, or 2.1%.
This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases, partially offset by lower sales volume.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $39.0 million for nine months ended June 30, 2019, which was relatively flat compared to the same period last year.
The remaining increase was driven by higher value product mix, strong organic demand for the Company’s heritage CMP polishing pads product line, which increased 11.1%, primarily on higher sales volume, partially offset by the decrease in Company's heritage CMP slurries products due to the softer industry conditions.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
In addition, we have operations and customers located in the United Kingdom.


