The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 we recognized a $933 decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings, net of tax, due to the cumulative impact of adopting the new revenue standards.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
We previously accrued for undelivered free product as a charge to cost of sales.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.Except as required by law, Cabot Microelectronics undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements made by it to reflect new information, subsequent events or circumstances.
In the Electronic Materials segment, our CMP slurries revenue declined this quarter due primarily to softer market conditions, particularly in the memory, but also in the foundry, sectors.
In electronic chemicals, we saw stable demand this quarter.
Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, a charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
For the same reasons, diluted earnings per share decreased from $1.14 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $0.92 in the current quarter.Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.