The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
The results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 we recognized a $933 decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings, net of tax, due to the cumulative impact of adopting the new revenue standards.
We previously accrued for undelivered free product as a charge to cost of sales.
In prior fiscal years, in accordance with ASC 605, we did not consider prospective tiered pricing to represent a material right.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards.
As a result, for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards.
As part of the adoption of ASU 606, the Company elected to use certain allowed practical expedients.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.In the Electronic Materials segment, this quarter we delivered strong growth in both CMP slurries and pads, as well as in KMG’s legacy electronic chemicals business.
Within the memory sector we experienced continued strong demand for our products, particularly for memory applications.
In the Performance Materials segment, we also recorded strong revenue, driven by increased demand for our industry leading drag-reducing agents, or DRA’s.
We anticipate future growth for this business with the continued growth in oil production in U.S., primarily in the Permian basin.Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.