We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
Our gross margins vary.
Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter.
We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps.
We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems.Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 totaled $671 million, or 43% of net revenues and $2,049 million, or 45% of net revenues, respectively, representing a decrease of one and a half percentage points and three percentage points when compared to the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, primarily due to higher net revenues in the current year periods.
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $1,935 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 12% increase from $1,721 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues were flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, and increased two percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018.
None of this incremental revenue was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and