We expect to complete all activities associated with the April 2019 plan by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020 with no significant additional charges.
We expect to complete all activities associated with the May 2019 plan by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020 with no significant additional charges.
Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $574 million and $761 million during the three months ended July 26, 2019 and July 27, 2018, respectively.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
We sold $14 million and $30 million of receivables during the three months ended July 26, 2019 and July 27, 2018, respectively.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
Our gross margins vary.Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 totaled $691 million, or 56% of net revenues, representing an increase of nine percentage points when compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower net revenues in the current fiscal period.
Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues decreased by seven percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect to complete all activities associated with the May 2019 plan by the end of second quarter of fiscal 2020 with no significant additional charges.
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we generated cash from operating activities of $310 million, reflecting net income of $103 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $49 million, and stock-based compensation of $42 million, compared to $326 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first three months of fiscal 2019.As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and