We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
Our gross margins vary.
Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter.
Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels have increased demand uncertainty for our products, and in our fiscal 2016 resulted in lower sales to these customers.
We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps.Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 totaled $688 million, or 45% of net revenues and $1,378 million, or 46% of net revenues, respectively, representing a decrease of three percentage points and four percentage points when compared to the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily due to higher net revenues in the current year periods.
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $1,261 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 19% increase from $1,064 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $649 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 15% increase from $566 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net revenues for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 were $1,517 million and $2,991 million, respectively, reflecting an increase of $102 million, or 7%, and $255 million, or 9%, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, reflecting higher product revenues.As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and