Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $761 million and $639 million during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively.
We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
We expect to complete the May 2018 Plan by the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with no significant additional charges incurred.
We sold $30 million and $31 million of receivables during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
Our gross margins vary.Total product revenue from mature solutions totaled $263 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, an increase of 15% from $229 million in in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, attributable to a 17% increase in add-on hardware, storage and related OS revenues and a 49% increase in OEM revenues.
Net revenues for the first quarter fiscal 2019 were $1,474 million, reflecting an increase of $153 million, or 12%, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily reflecting higher product revenues.
Cost of product revenues represented 45% of product revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 52% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
There were no comparable ELAs in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and