We expect to complete all activities associated with the April 2019 plan by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020 with no significant additional charges.
As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and
Our gross margins vary.
We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps.
In particular, strategic partnerships with hyperscalers and cloud service vendors are critical to the success of our cloud-based business.
Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology.Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $779 million in the first six months of fiscal 2020 reflecting a 19% decrease from $960 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $442 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 reflecting a 9% decrease from $485 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 totaled $667 million, or 49% of net revenues and $1,358 million, or 52% of revenues, respectively, representing an increase of three and a half percentage points and six percentage points, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2019, primarily due to lower net revenues in the current year periods.
Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues decreased by four percentage points and five and a half percentage points in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2019.As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities.
We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business.
A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and