fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
We have the intent and ability to hold our commercial loans to maturity and have not recorded provisions for loan losses as of December 31, 2018.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance.
As of December 31, 2018, our revenue and receivables from MCAs were derived from a single MCA originator with which we funded, in syndication, more than 100 advances to merchants.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent.
If we do not complete this acquisition, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits.


