fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (1) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (2) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Debt securities for which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are classified as available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the condensed consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt and marketable equity securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading, are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income (loss) and reported in stockholders’ equity.
The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented, unless deemed impracticable, in which case, prospective application is permitted.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares, including dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during each period.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 14, 2018, and in “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.


