CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day.
In fiscal year 2016, the Company introduced Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America (“U.S.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented, unless deemed impracticable, in which case, prospective application is permitted.References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
See Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information about legal proceedings.
Additional risk factors are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.