fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”) (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of September 30, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost.
Gains and losses resulting from the disposition of real estate are included in operations.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 9,757 and 31,665 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, equity securities, and corporate debt.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA originators to fund MCAs themselves.
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders.
We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry.
Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment.
We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses.
Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.2 million of sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.


