fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
See Note 3 for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur Holdings”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company accounts for acquisitions of entities that include inputs and processes and have the ability to create outputs as business combinations.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is recorded as a liability and remeasured each accounting period, with any resulting change being recorded as an operating income or loss item within the statement of operations.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”).
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
Appointment of Mr. Wayne Barr, Jr. as President and Chief Executive Officer This transaction was negotiated pursuant to a previously announced letter of intent between the Company and LuxeMark.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.


