fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-employment healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees.
Additionally, the Company remeasures certain assets to fair value, using Level 3 measurements, as a result of the occurrence of triggering events.
The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
On August 7, 2019, the Company entered into a seventh amendment (the Seventh Amendment) to its Credit Agreement.
In May 2017, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Kony, a leading enterprise mobility and application company, to offer white label mobile application solutions for financial institutions and retailers.
Insured events include disability, death and reaching of retirement age.
Management determined this error was not material to the prior period and recorded the correction in the three months ended June 30, 2019 resulting in a $9.5 charge in the loss (gain) on the sale of assets, net.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $8.6 and $19.8 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $38.3 and $44.4 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to DN Now.
The Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0, resulting in a gain of $7.3.
There have been $0.4 and $9.7 during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $3.3 and $20.6 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, of impairment losses recognized as bad debt related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities in the rabbi trusts are recognized in interest income.
The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis.
The expense on the loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, the impacts of the Tax Act and the higher interest expense burden resulting from the debt restructuring.
The Company has challenged multiple customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of automated teller machines (ATMs).
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
Total share-based compensation expense was $5.3 and $6.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $19.4 and $27.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
The $79.9 change was primarily due to the monetization of the Company's investment in the company owned life insurance plans in the third quarter of 2018 and a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs as well as a reduction in the Company's capital spend.
The nine months ended September 30, 2019 included the loss of the Venezuela business and losses from the divestiture and liquidation of non-core businesses in Eurasia.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, Retail net sales decreased $42.3, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $51.4 mostly related to the euro and divestitures of $14.1.
These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment.
More specifically, the expense on the loss reflects refinement of the transition tax, the impacts related to GILTI and the business interest deduction limitation which, as a result of the Company’s debt restructuring activities during the quarter, required a full valuation allowance on the current year nondeductible business interest expense.
applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
In the three months ended September 30, 2019, the gain on sale of assets primarily relates to the Kony transaction.
The expense on the loss for the three months ended and nine months ended was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, the impacts of the Tax Act and the higher interest expense burden resulting from the debt restructuring.
Partially offsetting the services decrease, higher product revenue from increased volume in Germany, the Middle East and South Africa as a result of Windows 10 upgrades and other product enhancements.
Segment operating profit decreased $2.6 in the three months ended September 30, 2019 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $2.2.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Further execution of key controls and testing to be conducted through the balance of 2019 and early 2020 will determine whether these changes will prove effective in remediating the respective underlying material weaknesses.


part2.txt



