fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company does not allocate to its segments certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level; that are not routinely used in the management of the segments; or information that is impractical to report.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The Company is pursuing its remedies in the judicial sphere and management continues to believe that it has valid legal positions.
The Company is pursuing its remedies in the judicial sphere and management continues to believe that it has valid legal positions.
There have been no impairment indicators identified during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.
The Company has minimal cost to obtain or fulfill contracts for customers for the periods presented.
The Company also has defined benefit plans in Germany and Switzerland, among others.
Companies should not apply the estimated annual tax rate to interim financial results if the estimated annual tax rate is not reliably predictable.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
Revenue is recognized progressively based on the costs incurred method.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time.
The employer funded pension commitments in Germany are based upon direct performance-related commitments in terms of defined contribution plans.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months.
Insured events include disability, death and reaching of retirement age.
The interest rate contract is not designated and changes in the fair value of non-designated interest rate swap agreements are recognized in miscellaneous, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.


item2.txt
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
In October 2017, the Company introduced Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking and retail marketplace.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
These systems enable highly secure physical and digital transactions around the world.
In October 2017, the Company introduced Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking and retail marketplace.
convert to cash within the year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, services net sales increased $19.0 or 3.3 percent and included a net favorable currency impact of $39.9 and Deferred Revenue Adjustments of $5.2.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, systems net sales decreased $66.7 or 15.9 percent, including a net favorable currency impact of $38.5 and Deferred Revenue Adjustments of $5.2.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



