fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
Nixdorf, Incorporated, and Diebold Nixdorf AG, the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG of $386.7 was reclassified to redeemable noncontrolling interest.
The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The Company anticipates reimbursement of approximately $13 for certain benefits paid from its trustee in 2019.
The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decisions in support of its position in those matters.
On April 25, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 3.0 common shares available for award.
Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company.
Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
On November 10, 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute Systems solutions in China.
Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company.
The appraisal proceedings were filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of both the cash exit compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share and the annual recurring compensation of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share offered in connection with the DPLTA.
The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding Revolving Facility borrowings as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was 6.00 percent and 5.97 percent, respectively, which is variable based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
The redeemable noncontrolling interests were recorded at fair value as by applying the income approach using unobservable inputs for projected cash flows, including but not limited, to net sales and operating profit, and a discount rate, which are considered Level 3 inputs.
The Company recognized $0.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.


item2.txt
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
Miscellaneous net, decreased $1.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, unfavorably impacted by higher costs and lower benefits associated with the company owned life insurance.
Refer to note 17 for additional information regarding the Company's hedging and derivative instruments.
•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
Americas Banking net sales increased $29.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.9 related to the Brazil real.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
Excluding currency, net sales increased $34.9 primarily due to increased installation volume in Canada and the U.S. as well as improved supply chain management in North America.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Because of the material weaknesses identified above, a reasonable possibility exists that a material misstatement in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.


part2.txt
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2018.


