fls.txt



item1.txt
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
No shares are vested unless certain performance threshold objectives are met.
Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
The Company is in process of seeking an amendment to that covenant or obtaining a waiver thereof from our lenders.
When the professional services are not highly customized as in basic software installation services, customers do not take control of the services until they are completed.
At June 30, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $3.4 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
If the Company is not able to make payments or fulfill contractual obligations, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
The plan is anticipating savings of approximately $100 from the new customer centric operating model with clear role charters and a global workforce aligned with market demand.
The divestiture closed on June 30, 2017.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of its noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 in the aggregate.
As of June 30, 2017, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $43.2 and $20.8, respectively.
There are no plan assets and the Company funds the benefits as the claims are paid.
The contract assets are reclassified into the receivables balance when the rights to receive payment become unconditional.
For retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
For this interest rate swap, the three-month EURIBOR is received and a fixed interest of 2.97 percent is paid.
The net loss recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge derivative instruments was $10.9 and $1.4 in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Capital resources are obtained from income retained in the business, borrowings under the Company’s committed and uncommitted credit facilities and operating and capital leasing arrangements.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2024 Senior Notes which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future domestic subsidiaries and mature in 2024.
•Secured a three-year frame agreement for branch automation services and systems with a major French bank.
Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $1.4 and $1.5, respectively, and the six months ended were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $19.5, primarily related to $14.0 lower Purchase Accounting Adjustments inclusive of amortization and prior-year deferred revenue, and a $3.7 benefit from the Brazil indirect tax accrual reversal in the first quarter of 2018.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 and $36.0 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, a decrease of $35.0.
•Secured a three-year frame agreement for branch automation services and systems with a major French bank.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2024 Senior Notes which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future domestic subsidiaries and mature in 2024.


item3.txt
Changes in value that are deemed effective are accumulated in AOCI.


item4.txt



part2.txt



