A ruling by the court would apply to all Diebold Nixdorf AG shares outstanding at the time the DPLTA became effective.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities.
The Company recognized $0.5 and $1.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Based on the results of the impairment testing, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $109.3 related to the Eurasia Banking, EMEA Retail and Rest of World Retail reporting units during the third quarter of 2018.
The Company adopted Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018.
The ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient relates to the on-demand service revenue which is generally not under contract.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Company continually considers its operating structure and the information subject to regular review by its Chief Executive Officer, who is the CODM, to identify reportable operating segments.
There were no charges during the periods presented.
In these cases, when or as the performance obligation is satisfied, the Company recognizes revenue and records a contract asset until customer acceptance is received.Product gross margin decreased 1.3 percent in the three months ended and was relatively flat in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
The expense on the loss for the three months ended and nine months ended was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, the impacts of the Tax Act and the higher interest expense burden resulting from the debt restructuring.
The Company launched the formal process to merge the German subsidiary, Diebold Nixdorf AG, with and into Diebold KGaA.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into the Incremental Agreement which reduced the initial the Term Loan B Facility of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.