fls.txt



item1.txt
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition.
Segment operating profit is defined as revenues less expenses identifiable to those segments.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2019.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $2.2 and $6.0 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 related to this plan, respectively.
In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-employment healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees.
Management determined this error was not material to the prior period and recorded the correction in the three months ended June 30, 2019 resulting in a $9.5 charge in the loss (gain) on the sale of assets, net.
The Company recognized $0.5 and $1.0 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $36.5 and $36.7 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company identified four reporting units, which are Eurasia Banking, Americas Banking, EMEA Retail and Rest of World Retail.
The Company, however, is convinced that its defense in both appraisal proceedings which are still at preliminary stages is supported by strong sets of facts and the Company will continue to vigorously defend itself in these matters.
The lawsuits assert that the Company and two former officers made material misstatements regarding the Company’s business and operations, causing the Company’s common stock to be overvalued during the period prior to July 5, 2017, which is the date the Company issued a pre-earnings announcement reducing its 2017 financial guidance.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the reportable operating segments.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $58.1.
Consistent with ASC 842 requirements, leases that are one month or less are not included in the balance.
The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.


item2.txt
Partially offsetting the increases, services revenue declined from lower maintenance contract volume and billed work activity in the U.S.
Segment operating profit margin increased 3.4 percent and 1.5 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily from lower costs and expenses tied to DN Now initiatives as well as higher volume and favorable service mix related to maintenance and support activities in Europe.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables.
•the Company's ability to successfully amend and extend any or a portion of its senior secured revolving credit facility and term loan debt that matures in 2020.
In the six months ended June 30, 2019, research, development and engineering expense decreased $9.3 including a net favorable currency impact of $3.9.
The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables.
The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
In July 2019, the Company initiated a formal process to amend and extend its senior secured revolving and term loan debt that matures in December 2020.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company did not establish effective IT and financial user access controls commensurate with certain job responsibilities.


part2.txt



