fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available tob us as of such date.


item1.txt
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.


item2.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
We also continue our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1.


