fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
We use the implicit rate when readily determinable.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.


item2.txt
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne.
This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Net loss decreased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2019.
Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
The decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops Shure from further infringing the Graham patent pending a full trial.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.
On July 18, 2019, Shure, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. Court for the District of Delaware.


