The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Net loss decreased marginally from $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2019.
Overall revenue declined in the first six months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.Item 1.
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.