item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
While management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of adopting this new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, the Company expects the adoption of the new standard will result in the recognition of revenue generally upon shipment (sell-in basis) for sales of products to certain direct retail customers and customers in certain indirect retail channels which are currently being recognized on a sell-through basis.
This ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company repurchased $56 million and $206 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Notes, respectively, for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Company recorded a loss of approximately $1 million and $3 million on repurchases during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively, which is included in Other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The remainder of the 2018 Notes are classified as Current portion of long-term debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 30, 2018.
The Company recorded income tax provisions of $12 million and $231 million in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 included approximately $2 million of net discrete tax benefit and approximately $195 million of net discrete expense, respectively.
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $18 million and $37 million in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 included approximately $8 million of net discrete tax expense and approximately $3 million of net discrete tax expense, respectively.
The Company paid $9.75 per share, or $674 million, in cash for the acquisition.
March 2017 Plan - On March 9, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “March 2017 Plan”) in connection with the continued consolidation of its global footprint.
In addition, during fiscal year 2017, the Company committed to sell certain land and buildings primarily in Asia as part of the March 2017 and July 2016 plans, which accordingly met the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale and were reclassified to Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at that time.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company sold certain of these properties, which were previously classified as assets held for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $1 million, which was included in Restructuring and other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company records all derivatives in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The changes in the fair value of the effective portions of designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”).
Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.
(a) The amount of gain (loss) recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were less than $1 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.
The Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in its consolidated financial statements at fair value.
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no Level 3 assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
For the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that a certain equity investment accounted for under the cost method was other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded a charge of $3 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment to its fair value.
For the nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $25 million on a strategic investment.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company did not record any impairment charges.
Since there was no active market for the equity securities of the investee, the Company estimated fair value of the investee by analyzing the underlying cash flows and future prospects of the investee.
As of June 30, 2017, the Company had $77 million of held for sale land and buildings (collectively, the “properties”) primarily in Asia included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the fiscal year 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $35 million in order to write down the carrying amount of such properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell.
In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company completed the sale of certain of these properties and recorded a gain of approximately $1 million, which was included in Restructuring and other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had $36 million of properties that continued to be included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.
On April 22, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase $2.5 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares.
On July 27, 2010, in connection with the Redomestication, the Company, as sole shareholder of Seagate-Cayman, approved a form of deed of indemnity (the “Deed of Indemnity”), which provides for the indemnification by Seagate-Cayman of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, Seagate-Cayman or any subsidiary of the Company (each, a “Deed Indemnitee”), in addition to any of a Deed Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under the Company’s Articles of Association, applicable law or otherwise, with a similar scope to the Revised Indemnification Agreement.
Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were approximately 1 million for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, and approximately 1 million and 2 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
On June 5, 2013, Enova Technology Corporation (“Enova”) filed a complaint against Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,136,995 (the “‘995 patent”), “Cryptographic Device,” and U.S. Patent No. 7,900,057 (the “‘057 patent”), “Cryptographic Serial ATA Apparatus and Method.” The Company believes the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case.
The ECL contemplates that, upon the closing of the acquisition, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would purchase up to JPY 139.5 billion (approximately USD 1.31 billion based on an exchange rate as of March 30, 2018), of a newly issued non-convertible preferred stock of a newly formed company, K.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, referred to herein as the “March 2018 quarter,” the “December 2017 quarter,” and the “March 2017 quarter,” respectively.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, revenue in the March 2018 quarter increased by $129 million as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped primarily in the enterprise market, partially offset by price erosion.
Revenue for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased modestly from the nine months ended March 2017 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an increase in exabytes shipped.
Compared to the corresponding three and nine months ended March 2017 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and cost containment efforts.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, product development expense in the March 2018 quarter decreased by $70 million due to a $31 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $32 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies and a $7 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses.
Compared to the corresponding nine months ended March 2017 quarter, product development expense for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased by $177 million due to a $68 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $78 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies and a $31 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses.
Marketing and administrative expense for the March 2018 quarter decreased by $7 million from the December 2017 quarter primarily due to a $4 million decrease due to operational efficiencies and a $2 million decrease in variable compensation expense.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense in the March 2018 quarter decreased by $15 million due to a $17 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $6 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses, partially offset by an increase in other general expenses.
Compared to the corresponding nine months ended March 2017 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased by $35 million due to a $30 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $17 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses, partially offset by a $12 million increase in other general expenses.
Restructuring and other, net for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter was comprised primarily of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 1,100 employees.
Restructuring and other, net for the three and nine months ended March 2017 quarter was primarily comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 300 and 6,800 employees, respectively.
Other expense, net decreased by $14 million from the December 2017 quarter primarily due to a $9 million gain from net favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, a $3 million increase in interest income, a $2 million decrease in loss on repurchase of debt, partially offset by a $3 million charge related to the impairment of a strategic investment.
Compared to March 2017 quarter, Other expense, net decreased by $6 million in the March 2018 quarter primarily due to a $9 million gain from net favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and a $4 million increase in interest income, partially offset by a $6 million net increase in losses related to strategic investments.
We recorded income tax provisions of $12 million and $231 million in the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter, respectively.
The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter included approximately $2 million of net discrete tax benefit and approximately $195 million of net discrete expense, respectively.
The discrete items for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter are primarily associated with the revaluation of U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) on December 22, 2017, partially offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation.
Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $239 million, which was primarily attributable to the payments for the purchase of property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $270 million, partially offset by the proceeds of $43 million from the sale of certain properties previously classified as held for sale.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates.
These foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.


item4.txt
† The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.


part2.txt
† The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


