item1.txt
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The results of operations for the three months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending July 3, 2020.
This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years.
Effective June 29, 2019, the Company adopted a new accounting policy for leases in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 842, Leases, using the modified retrospective approach.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet.
ROU assets are included in Other assets, net and lease liabilities are included in Accrued expenses and Other non-current liabilities on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s other condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company recorded a loss of $8 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations.
From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
In the September 2019 quarter, the Company entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on its Term Loan to fixed interest rates.
The Company records all derivatives on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar.
The Company recognizes gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in Other, net on its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps as of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019.
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”).
In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities.
Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.
The amount of loss recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was $1 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 262,624,650 shares were outstanding as of October 4, 2019, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of October 4, 2019.
The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.
Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands (“Seagate-Cayman”) and wholly-owned subsidiary of STX, from time to time enters into indemnification agreements with the directors, officers, employees and agents of STX or any of its subsidiaries (each, an “Indemnitee”).
The indemnification agreements provide indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under any relevant Articles of Association (or similar constitutional document), applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of STX or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of STX or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at the Company’s request.
The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share, which will be payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 26, 2019.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter,” the “June 2019 quarter,” and the “September 2018 quarter,” respectively.
The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million.
Revenue in the September 2019 quarter increased by $207 million from the June 2019 quarter primarily due to an increase in exabytes shipped and improved product mix, partially offset by price erosion.
Revenue in the September 2019 quarter decreased by $413 million from the September 2018 quarter primarily due to less favorable market conditions and price erosion.
Sales incentive programs were approximately 13%, 11% and 11% of gross HDD revenue for the September 2019 quarter, June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter, respectively.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter remained relatively flat compared to the June 2019 quarter.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased primarily driven by price erosion and factory under-utilization.
Product development expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $14 million compared to the June 2019 quarter due to a $14 million increase in compensation and other employee benefits resulting primarily from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Product development expense for the September 2019 quarter decreased by $11 million primarily due to a $10 million decrease in other general expenses as a result of timing of materials purchases and a $5 million decrease in variable compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in expense from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter.
Marketing and administrative expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $14 million from the June 2019 quarter, primarily due to a $9 million increase in other general expenses as a result of increased outside services, a $2 million increase in variable compensation expense and a $2 million increase in compensation and other employee benefits mainly resulting from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $7 million, primarily due to a $4 million increase in share-based compensation expense and a $4 million increase in other general expenses mainly as a result of increased outside services and increase in expense from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter.
Restructuring and other, net for the September 2019 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a new voluntary early exit program.
Other expense, net for the September 2019 quarter increased by $34 million from the June 2019 quarter, primarily due to a $30 million loss resulting from the repurchase of certain long-term debt and a $5 million decrease in interest income mainly resulting from the redemption of our investment in Toshiba Memory Holdings Corporation (“TMHC”) in the June 2019 quarter.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Other expense, net for the September 2019 quarter increased by $40 million primarily due to a $30 million loss resulting from the repurchase of certain long-term debt and an $11 million decrease in interest income mainly resulting from the redemption of our investment in TMHC in the June 2019 quarter.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of October 4, 2019 decreased by $436 million from June 28, 2019 primarily as a result of the repurchase of certain senior notes of $645 million for $620 million in aggregate principal amount, repurchases of our ordinary shares of $450 million, dividends to our shareholders of $170 million, and payments for capital expenditures of $147 million, partially offset by net proceeds of $498 million from borrowings under our Term Loan and net cash of $456 million provided by operating activities.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of October 4, 2019.
From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures.
We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio.
We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution.
We are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our SDCP.
In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a TRS in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities.


item4.txt
† The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.


part2.txt
† The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.


