fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, which includes identifying contracts with customers, identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and recognizing revenue when the entity satisfies each performance obligation.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.


item2.txt
Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
International revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $12.7 million, also an 18.9% increase over the previous year’s third quarter and represents 37% of AstroNova’s third quarter revenue.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
Current year third quarter gross profit was $13.9 million, a 17.9% increase compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $11.8 million.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $99.5 million, representing a 23.3% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $80.7 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.


