fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the period ended April 28, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.


item2.txt
Three Months Ended April 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended April 29, 2017 Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 38.5% reflects a 0.5 percentage point increase from the prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.0%.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.


