fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
See Note 11 for further details related to the new lease accounting policy as a result of this adoption.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2019 was $903,000.
The Company amortized $82,000 of direct costs for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at November 2, 2019 was $942,000, of which $117,000 is reported in other current assets and $825,000 is reported in other assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 238,477 and 206,592, respectively.


item2.txt
Product Identification (“PI”) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Three Months Ended November 2, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.7 million, a 2.5% decrease over prior year’s third quarter supplies revenue of $18.1 million.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter tax provision of $0.4 million, which reflected a benefit of $0.1 million related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and an effective tax rate of 22.3%.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s third quarter was $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
Return on revenue was 1.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 4.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $103.0 million, representing a 3.5% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $99.5 million.
The current year’s first nine months of international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.2 million.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $55.5 million, representing a 5.3% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $52.7 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and label sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The description of the Fourth Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.


