fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
See Note 11 for further details related to the new lease accounting policy as a result of this adoption.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2019 was $903,000.
During the six month ended August 3, 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs were $54,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at August 3, 2019 was $848,000, of which $109,000 is reported in other current assets and $739,000 is reported in other assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet.


item2.txt
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Three Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $18.1 million, a 1.1% increase over prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $17.9 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s second quarter was $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share.
Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million.
The current year’s first six months international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and labels sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.
On a comparable basis, net income for the first six months of the prior year was $2.0 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.


