We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences.
Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
We rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including IBM which will manage a significant portion of our systems.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $31.2 million and $66.1 million, respectively.Routing and switching revenue decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our Service Provider vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our MX product family, and a decrease in our Enterprise vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our QFX product family.For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers.