We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
The acquisition of Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence, is expected to enhance Juniper's enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with Juniper's wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and IT experiences.
Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
Under the terms of our recent Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work, following a transition period, IBM will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.Switching revenue increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily resulting from higher net revenues from our QFX product family in our Cloud vertical, partially offset by lower net revenues from our EX product family.For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers.