Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. 
Deferred commissions were $26.3 million as of June 30, 2018. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $37.7 million and $78.2 million, respectively. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
Product revenue of $17.0 million and $56.5 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Service revenue of $166.3 million and $431.3 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2017 we acquired Cyphort Inc. and in 2016, we acquired AppFormix Inc., Aurrion, Inc. and BTI Systems Inc. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. If we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies 
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in ScreenOS that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections.
We rely on single or limited sources for certain of our components. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. For example, we are in the process of working through some industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components. In addition, 
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. For example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. These cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. In addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to customer mix, product mix, and lower revenues. This was partially offset by improvements in our cost structure. 
The decrease in routing and switching revenues in the Americas was partially offset by higher revenues in EMEA, as well as strong growth in Enterprise. Security revenues increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by all verticals.
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues, customer mix, product mix, and higher costs of certain memory components. This was partially offset by improvements in our cost structure.Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. 
If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins and operating margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2017 we acquired Cyphort Inc. and in 2016, we acquired AppFormix Inc., Aurrion, Inc. and BTI Systems Inc. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. If we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies 