FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of, and subject to the protection of, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “estimates,” “will,” “should,” “plans” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy.
Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve significant risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may vary materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
Among the factors that significantly impact our business and could impact our business in the future are:
These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various factors, including those set forth under “Item 1A.
Risk Factors,” in “Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Report.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) covers: (i) the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 and (ii) the financial condition as of June 30, 2019.
You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (the “Audited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements (the “Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements”) and related notes appearing elsewhere herein.
This MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results may differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
See “Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements.
