Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
We are exposed to market risks arising from our normal business activities.
These market risks principally involve the possibility of changes in interest rates that will adversely affect the value of our financial assets and liabilities or future cash flows and earnings.
Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices.
Interest rate risks

We issued floating-rate debt which is subject to fluctuations in interest rates.
Our senior secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the Term B Loan is subject to floors or minimum rates.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of June 30, 2018, after considering our interest rate swap, under the senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.8 million.
The impact on future interest expense as a result of future changes in interest rates will depend largely on the gross amount of our borrowings at that time.
In December 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $200 million.
Under this agreement, commencing on January 1, 2017, we began to receive a rate equal to the LIBOR applicable to our Term B loan, and pay a fixed rate equal to 1.9225%.
The net effect of the swap agreement is to fix the interest rate on $200 million of our Term B loan at 4.4225%, beginning January 1, 2017 and ending when the Term B Loan matures, in April 2020.
The interest rate swap exposes us to credit risk in the event that the counterparty to the swap agreement does not or cannot meet its obligations.
The notional amount is used to measure interest to be paid or received and does not represent the amount of exposure to credit loss.
The loss would be limited to the amount that would have been received, if any, over the remaining life of the swap.
The counterparty to the swap is a major United States financial institution and we expect the counterparty to be able to perform its obligations under the swap.
We use derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes only and not for trading or speculative purposes

See Note 5 of the Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information related to the senior secured credit facilities.
Foreign exchange risk

We conduct business in certain countries in Latin America.
Some of this business is conducted in the countries’ local currencies.
The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments, from operations for which the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the unaudited consolidated condensed balance sheets, except for highly inflationary environments in which the effects would be included in other operating income in the consolidated condensed statements of income and comprehensive income.
At June 30, 2018, the Company had $13.0 million in an unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustment as part of accumulated other comprehensive loss compared with an unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustment of $11.1 million at December 31, 2017.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.
