fls.txt



item1.txt
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
On April 14, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate the Pincon and Chung actions.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


item2.txt
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
We have a diverse base of customers.
These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, Israel and China.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
We have recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of $1.8 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to its service business and certain custom products.
Revenue under ASC 606 is recognized when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer has been satisfied and control has transferred to the customer.
Extended warranty, service contracts, and repair services, which are transferred to the customer over time, are recorded as revenue as the services are performed.
We consider this to be a faithful depiction of the transfer to the customer of revenue over time as the work performed daily is primarily ratable over time.
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the products or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the product or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the product or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
Sales, value add, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.
The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
We periodically enter into contracts with our customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or extended warranty obligations.
These contracts include multiple promises that we evaluate to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations.
There are no constraints on the variable consideration recorded.
The corresponding revenues are recognized when or as the related performance obligations are satisfied, which are noted above.
Impacts of variable consideration were immaterial during the period.
Our standard assurance warranty period is normally 12 to 24 months.
The separately priced contracts generally range from 12 to 60 months.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
On April 14, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate the Pincon and Chung actions.
The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors.


