fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update.
the impact of pending adoption on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
2016-02, “Leases”.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
“ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method.
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date.
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.


item2.txt
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
We have a diverse base of customers.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from China, South Korea, Germany and Japan.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
At the inception of an arrangement, we determine whether the arrangement is or contains a lease based on the facts and circumstances present.
right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities.
We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less.
right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term.
right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received.
In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
pre- and post-judgment interest.


