fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The Company has operating leases for real estate and non-real estate, which are comprised of automobiles, in North America, Europe, and Asia.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Management has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate any of its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Dividend income is recognized as income on the date the stock trades “ex-dividend.” The cost of marketable securities sold is determined by the specific identification method.
Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date.
Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.
The long-term investments presented in the table above do not include the Company’s minority interest investment in a private company, which is accounted for under the cost method.


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training.
Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense.
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
We have a diverse base of customers.
These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from Japan, Germany, China, South Korea and Israel.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.


