fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
The accounting for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock could have a material effect on our reported financial results.


item2.txt
In exchange, we settled the outstanding $800 million 2.00% senior convertible notes with the issuance of 5.5 million shares and $1.1 billion in cash, of which, $600 million was paid subsequent to quarter end.
The acquisition expands our video security solutions platform.
This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.
This acquisition expanded our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.
•a decline in the EMEA region of 1% primarily due to large system deployments in the Middle East in the third quarter of 2018 and currency headwinds, partially offset by growth within Europe.
•5% growth in Services, driven by growth in software and hardware maintenance revenue as well as managed services revenue, inclusive of acquisitions, and partially offset by currency headwinds.
•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio, inclusive of acquisitions.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales in the first nine months of 2019 and 33% in the first nine months of 2018.
•a decline in the EMEA region of 1% primarily due to currency headwinds and large system deployments in the Middle East completed in 2018, currency headwinds and partially offset by growth within Europe.
•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions and operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $44 million in the first nine months of 2019 and employee severance costs were $48 million in the first nine months of 2018.
At September 28, 2019, $744 million of the $1.1 billion cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $396 million was held in other countries, with $74 million held in the United Kingdom.
These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018.
We recognized net proceeds of $196 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts, which was then used to pay the $200 million principal due to Silver Lake Partners on October 15, 2018.
To complete the acquisition of Avigilon during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the "Term Loan").
In August of 2019, we issued a follow-on $150 million to the outstanding 4.60% senior notes due 2029 bringing the outstanding total to $800 million.


item3.txt
As of September 28, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $1.1 billion, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.


item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost.
The fair value of the embedded conversion option is classified as an addition to stockholder’s equity.
The difference between book carrying cost and face value of the debt represents a non-cash discount.
As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes.
Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the New Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the New Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount.


