fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 5, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases.
The standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of operations or statements of cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended July 5, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 29, 2019 was $920 million.


item2.txt
Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
See Subsequent event below and Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
•Net revenues increased 8% primarily due to the favorable impact from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from our Enterprise Security segment products and services that are transferred over time.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The announcement and pendency of the sale of our Enterprise Security assets, whether or not completed, may adversely affect our Enterprise Security and our Cyber Safety Security segment.
The announcement and pendency of the Sale may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding securities, our business or our relationships with customers, contract manufacturers, suppliers, business partners and employees.
Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
Additionally, employees working in the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business may become concerned about the future of the Enterprise Security or the Cyber Safety Security business, as applicable, and lose focus or seek other employment.
In addition, if the Sale is not completed, our Board of Directors, in discharging its fiduciary obligations to our stockholders, may evaluate other strategic options including, but not limited to, continuing to operate the Enterprise Security business for the foreseeable future or an alternative sale transaction relating to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.
If the sale of our Enterprise Security assets is completed, we will no longer be engaged in the Enterprise Security business and our future results of operations will be dependent solely on the Cyber Safety Security business and differ materially from our previous results.
In addition, if the Sale is completed, our future financial results will be dependent solely on our Cyber Safety Security business.


