fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance.
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $4 million and $9 million, respectively, and operating expenses decreased $2 million and $11 million, respectively.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes.
This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.


item2.txt
•Net revenues decreased 5% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $111 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Operating income increased $157 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC in May 2018.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters.


