fls.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).


item1.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
•Consumer Digital Safety.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
Our restructuring, transition and other costs and liabilities consist primarily of severance, facilities, transition and other related costs.
Restructuring, transition and other costs are managed at the corporate level and are not allocated to our reportable segments.


item2.txt
This database allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products.
We are also pioneering solutions in markets such as cloud security, digital safety, advanced threat protection, identity protection, information protection and cyber security services.
Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar.
We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
Research and development expense increased $125 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $79 million in stock-based compensation expense and $23 million in other compensation and benefits expense.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


