We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The results of operations for the three months ended June 29, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended June 29, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $5 million and operating expenses decreased $9 million.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.•Operating income increased primarily due to decreases in stock-based compensation expense and outside services compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, partially offset by the absence of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.