Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
Products sold under the QuickLabel and TrojanLabel brands are used in industrial and commercial product packaging, branding and labeling applications to digitally print custom labels and corresponding visual content in house.
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method and have applied the guidance to all contracts within the scope of ASC Topic 606 as of the February 1, 2018 adoption date.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.