fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the six months ended August 3, 2019 is primarily due to approximately $412,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
During the six month ended August 3, 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs were $54,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at August 3, 2019 was $848,000, of which $109,000 is reported in other current assets and $739,000 is reported in other assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The remaining contract costs are expected to be amortized over the estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 7 years.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.


item2.txt
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $18.1 million, a 1.1% increase over prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $17.9 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income.
Other expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million.
International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $27.0 million, a 3.5% increase from the previous year international revenue of $26.1 million.
Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $37.8 million, representing a 9.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $34.6 million.


item4.txt



