fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 5, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
On November 19, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which a subsidiary of the Company will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock.
In addition, in connection with the Merger, the Company plans to obtain a $500 million revolving credit facility, borrowings under which will be used for general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company has recorded $20.1 million of associated deferred debt and equity financing costs on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of May 5, 2018.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that simplifies the accounting for the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers and will require companies to recognize the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 6% from $572.7 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $604.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in our storage product sales and 11% increase in our networking and connectivity product sales.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits.
If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
If the Merger is not completed by September 19, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to November 19, 2018 under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained), either Marvell or Cavium may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement.
Marvell or Cavium may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the Effective Time, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable.
The benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently.
Until the completion of the Merger or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, Marvell and Cavium are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to Marvell or Cavium and their respective shareholders.


