fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
On May 20, 2019, the Company announced its intent to acquire Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries Inc. (“GlobalFoundries”).
The Company will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing, subject to certain adjustments, plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company classified assets held for sale of $597.7 million, which consisted of $28.2 million of inventory, $6.1 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software.
In addition, entities may elect to apply the guidance to all collaborative arrangements or only to collaborative arrangements that are not completed as of the date of initial application of the aforementioned revenue recognition standard.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allows the Company to carry forward the historical lease classification.
The Company elected to apply the short-term lease measurement and recognition exemption in which right-of use assets (“ROU”) and lease liabilities are not recognized for short-term leases.
Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise such options.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 1% from $665.3 million net revenue in the second quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $656.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Our net revenue for the six months ended August 3, 2019 increased by $49.1 million compared to net revenue for the six months ended August 4, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; •failure of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs or failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs.
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
Our proposed acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera involve a number of risks, including, among others, those associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash or our taking on significant indebtedness and other financial risks and integration risks.
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”).
In the event that we don't close our divestiture with NXP prior to these transactions or at all, then we may incur substantial indebtedness in connection with the Other Acquisitions.
Our use of cash in the Cavium acquisition and proposed use of cash in the Other Acquisitions would reduce our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
To the extent we are attempting to integrate multiple businesses such as the Other Acquisitions and to separate technology in connection with the NXP divestiture at the same time, we may not be able to do so as efficiently or effectively as we would prefer.
In connection with the integration of the Avera acquisition we may be required to obtain a U.S. government security clearance before we can market and sell our products to certain customers.


