Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

We carried out an evaluation required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act (the “Evaluation”), under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act as of November 30, 2018.
Based on the Evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that the design and operation of our disclosure controls were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our senior management, including our CEO and CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

For our fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2018, other than explained below, we did not identify any modifications to our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
The adoption of this guidance required changes to our processes, policies and internal controls, including controls around information used in disclosures, to meet the impact of the new standard and disclosure requirements.
Table of Contents 

PART II—OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  

We are party to certain lawsuits in the ordinary course of business.
We do not believe that these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  

For information regarding risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future results, see Part I, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  




The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on June 14, 2018.
The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2019.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information  

None.
Table of Contents 

Item 6.
Exhibits  

Index to Exhibits  



Table of Contents 


 †  

Indicates management compensatory plan, contract or arrangement  


Filed or furnished herewith  


XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) Filed Electronically with this report.
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
