References in this report to “the Company,” “Jabil,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean Jabil Inc. together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
These forward-looking statements (such as when we describe what “will,” “may,” or “should” occur, what we “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect” or “anticipate” will occur, and other similar statements) include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future sales and operating results, potential risks pertaining to these future sales and operating results, future prospects, anticipated benefits of proposed (or future) acquisitions, dispositions and new facilities, growth, the capabilities and capacities of business operations, any financial or other guidance, expected capital expenditures and dividends, expected restructuring charges and related savings and all statements that are not based on historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events.
We make certain assumptions when making forward-looking statements, any of which could prove inaccurate, including assumptions about our future operating results and business plans.
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.
The following important factors, among others, could affect future results and events, causing those results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements:
For a further list and description of various risks, factors and uncertainties that could cause future results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements, see the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, any subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware.
You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect.
All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements.
For information regarding risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future results, see Part I, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
