PART II—OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
We are party to certain lawsuits in the ordinary course of business.
We do not believe that these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
For information regarding risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future results, see Part I, “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock unit awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on June 14, 2018.
As of February 28, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been utilized.
 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
 Item 5.
Other Information
None.
Table of Contents
 Item 6.
Exhibits
Index to Exhibits
 †
Indicates management compensatory plan, contract or arrangement
Filed or furnished herewith
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) Filed Electronically with this report.
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
