 Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
We are one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions.
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our services enable our customers to reduce manufacturing costs, improve supply-chain management, reduce inventory obsolescence, lower transportation costs and reduce product fulfillment time.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
We depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue, which in turn depends upon their growth, viability and financial stability.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We conduct our operations in facilities that are located worldwide, including but not limited to, China, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and the United States.
We derived a substantial majority, 88.2% and 90.6%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019.
Our global manufacturing production sites allow customers to manufacture products simultaneously in the optimal locations for their products.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
We monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers we serve as well as our end-markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances change.
Summary of Results
Table of Contents
Key Performance Indicators
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances.
Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances.
For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
Revenue Recognition
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Results of Operations
Net Revenue
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues decreased 7% due to (i) a 9% decrease in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of decreased end user product demand, which we expect to remain weak for the balance of the fiscal year and (ii) a 2% decrease in revenues spread across various industries within the DMS segment.
The decrease was partially offset by a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 33% primarily due to (i) a 13% increase in revenues for customers within our cloud business, (ii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues for customers within our print and retail business.
The increase is partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, which we anticipate to recover in fiscal year 2020.
Net revenue increased during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 2% due to (i) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business and (ii) a 1% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the DMS segment.
The increase is partially offset by a 3% decrease in revenue from customers within our mobility business as a result of decreased end user product demand.
EMS segment revenues increased 27% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues for customers within our cloud business and (iv) a 5% increase in revenues for customers within our print and retail business.
The increase is partially offset by (i) a 2% decrease in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business and (ii) a 2% decrease in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Revenue for all other contracts with customers will be recognized at a point in time, upon transfer of control of the product to the customer, which is effectively no change to our historical accounting.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table of Contents
Gross Profit
For the three months ended February 28, 2019, gross profit for our DMS segment increased due to improved profitability across the various businesses.
This increase was offset by a decrease in our EMS segment due to continued weakness in the capital equipment business.
As a result, gross profit remained consistent as a percent of net revenue during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to weakness in the capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
The increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support new business growth and development and (ii) $12.8 million in acquisition and integration charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018.
The increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support new business growth and development and (ii) $21.7 million in acquisition and integration charges related to our strategic collaboration with a healthcare company.
The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
Research and Development
Table of Contents
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
Amortization of Intangibles
Amortization of intangibles decreased during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to intangible assets related to the Nypro acquisition, which were fully amortized during fiscal year 2018.
Restructuring and Related Charges
Includes $0.3 million and $2.1 million recorded in the EMS segment and $0.5 million and $3.3 million recorded in the DMS segment for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Includes $4.7 million and $8.0 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $7.9 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
We have incurred $187.1 million of costs-to-date as of February 28, 2019.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, once complete, is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 of approximately $90.0 million.
The annual cost savings are expected to be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue as well as reduction of selling, general and administrative expense.
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Other Expense
Table of Contents
Other expense increased for the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs.
The increase was partially offset by $2.6 million of costs incurred during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as a result of the early redemption of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018.
Interest Income
Interest income remained relatively consistent during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.
The additional borrowings were driven by the timing and scale of our ongoing new business ramps and the completion of the share repurchase program.
Income Tax Expense
The effective tax rate decreased for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to $30.9 million of tax expense from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”) for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, partially offset by $16.1 million of income tax benefits from the lapse of statute in a non-U.S. jurisdiction for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
Refer to Note 15 – “Income Taxes” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Tax Act.
Non-GAAP (Core) Financial Measures
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations include certain non-GAAP financial measures as identified in the reconciliations below.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed herein do not have standard meaning and may vary from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies or how we may calculate those measures in other instances from time to time.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Also, our “core” financial measures should not be construed as an inference by us that our future results will be unaffected by those items that are excluded from our “core” financial measures.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries,
Table of Contents
 settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
We determine the tax effect of the items excluded from “core” earnings and “core” diluted earnings per share based upon evaluation of the statutory tax treatment and the applicable tax rate of the jurisdiction in which the pre-tax items were incurred, and for which realization of the resulting tax benefit, if any, is expected.
In certain jurisdictions where we do not expect to realize a tax benefit (due to existing tax incentives or a history of operating losses or other factors resulting in a valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets), a reduced or 0% tax rate is applied.
We are reporting “core” operating income, “core” earnings and “core” return on invested capital to provide investors with an additional method for assessing operating income and earnings by presenting what we believe are our “core” manufacturing operations.
A significant portion (based on the respective values) of the items that are excluded for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings also impacted certain balance sheet assets, resulting in a portion of an asset being written off without a corresponding recovery of cash we may have previously spent with respect to the asset.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
In addition, although, for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings, we exclude stock-based compensation expense (which we anticipate continuing to incur in the future) because it is a non-cash expense, the associated stock issued may result in an increase in our outstanding shares of stock, which may result in the dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interest.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Charges relate to inventory and other assets charges for a distressed customer.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
Table of Contents
The tax effect is calculated by applying the U.S. GAAP effective tax rate for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 to U.S. GAAP operating income less interest expense.
The tax effect is calculated by applying the core effective tax rate for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 to core operating income less interest expense.
The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the most recently-ended quarter to the account balance at the end of the prior quarter and dividing by two.
Acquisitions and Expansion
During fiscal year 2019, the Company and JJMD entered into a Framework Agreement to form a strategic collaboration and expand our existing relationship.
The strategic collaboration expands our medical device manufacturing portfolio, diversification and capabilities.
On February 25, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, we completed the initial closing of our acquisition of certain assets of JJMD for approximately $80.8 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
The acquisition of the JJMD assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Assets acquired of $97.8 million and liabilities assumed of $17.0 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The two subsequent closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during the second half of fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020.
We are currently evaluating the fair values of the assets and liabilities related to this business combination.
The preliminary estimates and measurements are, therefore, subject to change during the measurement period for assets acquired, liabilities assumed and tax adjustments.
The results of operations were included in our condensed consolidated financial results beginning on February 25, 2019.
We believe it is impracticable to provide pro forma information for the acquisition of JJMD assets.
Table of Contents
Seasonality
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
We may realize greater net revenue during our first fiscal quarter, which ends on November 30, due to higher demand for consumer related products during the holiday selling season.
Therefore, quarterly results should not be relied upon as necessarily being indicative of results for the entire fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
As of February 28, 2019, we had approximately $749.1 million in cash and cash equivalents.
As our growth remains predominantly outside of the United States, a significant portion of such cash and cash equivalents are held by our foreign subsidiaries.
As a result of the Tax Act and after the one-time transition tax on our historically untaxed foreign earnings, the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. federal income tax consequences upon subsequent repatriation to the United States.
As a result, most of our cash and cash equivalents as of February 28, 2019 could be repatriated to the United States without potential tax consequences.
Notes Payable and Credit Facilities
As of February 28, 2019, we had $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our credit facilities contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
A violation of these covenants could negatively impact our liquidity by restricting our ability to borrow under the notes payable and credit facilities and potentially causing acceleration of amounts due under these notes payable and credit facilities.
As of February 28, 2019, we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
Refer to Note 7 – “Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Table of Contents
Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs
Asset-Backed Securitization Programs
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.
The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program.
No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of February 28, 2019.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
On November 27, 2018, we entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
Additionally, $197.0 million of receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of February 28, 2019.
Maximum amount available at any one time.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, we sold $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively.
As of February 28, 2019, we had up to $60.2 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 8 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
Table of Contents
Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs
Maximum amount available at any one time.
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.
The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.
The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended each year through February 23, 2024 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, we sold $1.7 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively.
As of February 28, 2019, we had up to $527.2 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Capital Expenditures
For fiscal year 2019, we anticipate our net capital expenditures will be approximately $800.0 million.
Our capital expenditures will support investments in new markets and ongoing maintenance in our DMS and EMS segments.
The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.
Cash Flows
Table of Contents
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 was primarily due to non-cash expenses, increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and decreased inventories, partially offset by increased contract assets and accounts receivable.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase to support expected sales levels in the second half of fiscal year 2019.
The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and for assets acquired in connection with the initial closing of the acquisition of JJMD at the end of February, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.
Financing Activities
Contractual Obligations
As of the date of this report, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2018 to our contractual obligations and commitments.
Dividends and Share Repurchases
We currently expect to continue to declare and pay regular quarterly dividends of an amount similar to our past declarations.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
This authorization expires on August 31, 2019.
As of February 28, 2019, 13.9 million shares had been repurchased for $350.0 million, which utilized the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors.
Table of Contents
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock unit awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on June 14, 2018.
As of February 28, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been utilized.
