fls.txt
These statements are based upon our current estimates and expectations as to prospective events and circumstances, which may or may not be in our control and as to which there can be no firm assurances given.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842 "Leases," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to leases in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Lease contracts may include lease components and non-lease components, such as common area maintenance and utilities for property leases.
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities).
The amendments in this ASU eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current U.S. GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income.
The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity.
Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date.
The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company’s money market instruments are reported at fair value based upon the daily market price for identical assets in active markets, and are therefore classified as Level 1.
Management is responsible for estimating the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities, and in doing so, considers valuations provided by a large, third-party pricing service.
They use this information to structure yield curves for various types of debt securities and arrive at the daily valuations.
The Company's forward contracts are typically traded or executed in over-the-counter markets with a high degree of pricing transparency.


item2.txt
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Cognex machine vision is primarily used to automate manufacturing and distribution processes in a variety of industries where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance.
Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.
Cognex products are also used outside of the manufacturing sector to automate distribution processes in the logistics industry for applications in retail distribution and ecommerce to scan, track, and sort goods through distribution centers.
Operating expenses increased by 2% over the prior year's first quarter due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.


item4.txt
Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
On December 5, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors allowed the Company’s Shareholder Rights Agreement and associated rights to expire in accordance with their terms without renewal.


