fls.txt



item1.txt
 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The obligation is related to a rebate that is due to a particular customer if the annual product sales volume metrics exceed threshold amounts under the provisions of the contract assumed by the Company.
The Company is currently in the process of completing this assessment and quantifying the implications of the new guidance adoption.
The Company is required to begin making principal payments commencing with the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition.
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
 At the closing of the acquisition of PBMMI, a cash payment of $3.3 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.7 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.5 million.


item2.txt
As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 6.0 percentage points and declined in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 1.2 percentage points.
 On October 4, 2017, we entered into the $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year end incentive bonus payments.
 You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Brooks’ Life Sciences internal revenue growth was favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates which increased revenue by $0.5 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the United States and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds for our U.S. operations.
In fiscal year 2016, we commercialized the internally developed Biostore III Cryo, an automated system which incorporates sample retrieval, archiving, monitoring, tracking, inventory control, and related enterprise systems connectivity with the industry’s leading cryogenic sample storage freezers.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
None of these obligations were called during the three months ended December 31, 2017, and we currently do not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash consisted primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue and timing of billings, a decrease in accrued compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year-end cash incentive bonus payments and an increase in inventory levels to support the growth of our business.
We incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item3.txt
As of December 31, 2017, the weighted average stated interest rate on the term loan was 4%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


