fls.txt



item1.txt
 12.
The provision recorded during each period was primarily driven by foreign income.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
During each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $3.6 million each and recognized net losses of less than $0.1 million.
 The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
 Item 1A.
The Company expects to acquire the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps.
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
   The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
 On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $1.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
 The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $37.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.


item2.txt
 On July 27, 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, depositary shares, purchase contracts and purchase units in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering.
Cost of revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 included $1.2 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively, incurred during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.7 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows related to proceeds from the term loan of $197.6 million and cash inflows of $42.8 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to business acquisitions of $83.0 million, dividend payments of $21.2 million, and capital expenditures of $9.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers as well as pharmaceutical and life science companies and research institutions in the world.
Please refer to Note 8, "Debt" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the term loan.
The increase in both periods were primarily driven by increases in sales of robotic automation products, cryogenic pump products and semiconductor services and related spare parts, partially offset by a decline in sales of contamination controls systems.
In fiscal year 2016, we commercialized the internally-developed Biostore III Cryo, an automated system which incorporates sample retrieval, archiving, monitoring, tracking, inventory control, and related enterprise systems connectivity with the industry’s leading cryogenic sample storage freezers.
 Results of Operations- Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $620.1 million, or by 21%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $13.0 million, or 35%, was from internal growth of $5.3 million, principally in sample storage services, automated storage systems, service and maintenance and software.
 Interest income- During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded interest income of $0.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively, which represented income earned on our marketable securities.
Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 0.6 percentage points and in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 0.7 percentage points in the 2018 period over the 2017 period.
We would also be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon the occurrence of certain events, as set forth in the term loan agreement.


item3.txt
We also utilize forward contracts to mitigate our exposures to currency movement.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


