fls.txt
 We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis.


item1.txt
 The stock awards granted to the members of the Company’s Board of Directors include restricted stock awards and deferred restricted stock units.
The Company recognizes revenue as work progresses based on a percentage of actual labor hours incurred on the project to-date and total estimated labor hours expected to be incurred on the project.
At December 31, 2018, deferred financing costs were $11.6 million.
The Company has concluded that none of its costs incurred in fulfillment of customer contracts meet the capitalization criteria.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $27.1 million and $19.0 million, respectively.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
 In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280.
Contracts may contain the option to acquire additional products or services at defined prices.
Registration fees for these samples were previously recognized as revenue at a point in time upon completion of the registration and are now required to be recognized ratably over the period of benefit under ASC 606.
Long-term contracts within this segment relate to the sale of products with attached service-type warranty contracts that generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
 The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
This change resulted in an increase to accumulated deficit of $1.5 million as of October 1, 2018.
Deferred financing costs were $0.5 million at both December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
 The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Pro forma revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 has been decreased by $0.4 million for the adoption of ASC 606.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $49.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively, and recognized net losses of $0.1 million.
We have aggregated the two operating segments as one reporting segment based on similarities in long-term forecasted economic characteristics, particularly adjusted operating income, similarity in services they offer, the customers they serve, the nature of their service delivery models, and their regulatory environments.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.


item2.txt
Additionally, the acquisition of Tec-Sem contributed incremental revenue of $9.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We finalized our analysis of the toll charge and related liabilities, including uncertain tax positions, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
 Restructuring charges were nominal during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease in gross profit of $0.3 million.
Cash used in investing activities of $398.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 included cash outflow of $445.2 million for the acquisition of GENEWIZ, $3.6 million of capital expenditures, and $1.3 million for the purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by cash inflows from the proceeds of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million.
The increase in interest expense is due to interest on the $350.0 million incremental term loan secured in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 also included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting, as compared to $1.2 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
These liabilities involve judgment and estimation and are monitored based on the best information available.
 The discussion of our cash flows and liquidity that follows does not include the impact of the disposition of our cryogenics business and is stated on a total company consolidated basis.


item3.txt
Sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar were approximately 35% and 33% of our total sales, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50.0 million worth of our common stock.


