fls.txt
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Power Integrations, Inc. consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2018, included in its Form 10-K filed on February 13, 2019, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to recognize lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
The difference between the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities was due to prepaid rent.
There was no impact on the condensed consolidated statement of income or the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.


item2.txt
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
We also supply high-voltage LED drivers, which are AC-DC ICs specifically designed for lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address.
In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We invest in high-credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.


item4.txt
Due to the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error may occur and may not be detected.


part2.txt



