fls.txt
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Power Integrations, Inc. consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in its Form 10-K filed on February 14, 2018, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market.
A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components.


item2.txt
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver markets through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, which enables us to address applications between approximately 10 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts, whereas previously our gate-driver products were primarily for applications above 100 kilowatts.
We intend to continue expanding our SAM in the years ahead through all of the means described above.
Our net revenues were $109.5 million and $107.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $212.6 million and $212.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase in net revenues for the three month period was due primarily to higher unit sales into the industrial end-market, driven mainly by growth in high-power gate-driver applications.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We mitigate default risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository.


item4.txt
Due to the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error may occur and may not be detected.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018.


