fls.txt
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Power Integrations, Inc. consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in its Form 10-K filed on February 14, 2018, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components.
Sales to distributors were $79.1 million and $80.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficiency of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver markets through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.
For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We mitigate default risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018.


