Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 
On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric. The non-GAAP operating income performance metric was established by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2017, concurrently with the non-GAAP EPS performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program. The Compensation Committee believes this change maintains the original rigor of the performance incentive objectives of the Incentive Plan. No other changes were made to the Incentive Plan.
Amendment to Third Amended and Restated By-laws
Effective January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) to grant stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders. Prior to the adoption of this provision, a special meeting of stockholders could only be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.
This description of the amendment to the By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the By-laws, as amended, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 6. Exhibits. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
