Item 1. Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
 In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material. Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”). This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset. Similarly, the purchasing (receiving) entity is required to recognize a deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability, as well as the related deferred tax benefit or expense, upon receipt of the asset. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”). This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. The ASU also limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below 
amortized cost. The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”). This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-based Payments (“ASU 2018-07”). This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. The Company adopted ASU 2018-07 during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Topic 350), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”). The new guidance clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in cloud computing arrangements. The Company adopted ASU 2018-15, on a prospective basis, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). This ASU requires lessees to reflect leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The Company plans to adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company plans to elect the package of three practical expedients that permits the Company to maintain its historical conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs for leases that exist at the date of adoption. Further, upon implementation of the new guidance, the Company intends to elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components. The Company has performed an assessment of the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Based on that assessment, the Company has estimated that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will result in the recognition of approximately $150 million to $170 million of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities based on the present value of future minimum lease payments for currently executed leases. The Company does not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a significant impact on its Consolidated Statements of Operations or its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
At June 28, 2019, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $80.6 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment. At September 28, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $94.1 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment. These amounts accrued at June 28, 2019, for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 for open contracts not completed as of the adoption date using the modified retrospective approach. The impact from the cumulative effect adjustment was not material and comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted. The impact of applying the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, was not material, except for an increase in accounts receivable and other current liabilities in the amount of $29.4 million to reflect customer credits as a liability. 
price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the corresponding performance obligation is satisfied.
Performance Obligations
Accounts receivable represents the Company’s unconditional right to receive consideration from its customer. Payments are due within one year of invoicing and do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. All incremental customer contract acquisition costs are expensed as they are incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less in duration.
Disaggregate Revenue 
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property. In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance. The Company’s CODM is the president and chief executive officer. The results of operations provided to and analyzed by the CODM are at the consolidated level, and accordingly, key resource decisions and assessment of performance are performed at the consolidated level. The Company assesses its determination of operating segments at least annually.
The Company’s revenue from external customers is generated principally from the sale of semiconductor products that facilitate various wireless communication applications. Accordingly, the Company considers its product offerings to be similar in nature and therefore not segregated for reporting purposes.
The contractual maturities of noncurrent available-for-sale marketable securities were due within two years or less. There were unrealized gains of $0.1 million on U.S. Treasury securities, $0.1 million on corporate bonds and notes, and $0.1 million on municipal bonds at June 28, 2019, and $0.1 million in unrealized losses on municipal bonds at September 28, 2018. 
Assets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
•Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
•Level 3 - Fair value is derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including assumptions and judgments made by the Company. 
Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment. There were no indicators of impairment identified during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019. 
There were no changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. There were no indicators of impairment noted during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense related to an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, these amounts in the table above included a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform.
The Company operates under a tax holiday in Singapore, which is effective through September 30, 2020. The Company has completed negotiations for an extension of this tax holiday through September 30, 2030. The current tax holiday and extension are both conditioned upon the Company's compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds in Singapore. 
Accrued taxes of $26.2 million and $43.8 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively. The deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next seven years, $18.0 million per year for each of the next four years, followed by payments of $33.6 million, $44.9 million, and $56.1 million in years five through seven, respectively. The Company has accrued $188.6 million and $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively.
Legal Matters
Guarantees and Indemnifications
Stock Repurchase Program
On January 30, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 30, 2021, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaced in its entirety the January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. 
During the three months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $85.8 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.2 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $72.20 per share). During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $511.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 6.9 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $73.85 per share). As of June 28, 2019, $1.8 billion remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
Dividends 
On August 7, 2019, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.44 per share, payable on September 17, 2019, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 27, 2019. 
Share-based Compensation
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
•local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the United States and China, Russia, Mexico, North Korea, Middle Eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, 
•labor market conditions and workers’ rights,
•disruptions of capital and trading markets,
•inability to collect accounts receivable,
•restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, increased import or export controls and tariffs) that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which we do business,
•unauthorized transfers of our electronic information and breaches of our information systems, as well as the potential lack of adequate remedies in certain jurisdictions,
•difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,
•cultural differences in the conduct of business,
•direct or indirect government actions, subsidies or policies aimed at supporting local industry,
•the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements,
•withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the United States (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting Mexico, China, and other countries in which we do business,
We are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in China. Although we intend to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In 
