fls.txt
Activision Blizzard, Inc. generally uses words such as “outlook,” “forecast,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “to be,” “plan,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “might,” “expects,” “intends,” “intends as,” “anticipates,” “estimate,” “future,” “positioned,” “potential,” “project,” “remain,” “scheduled,” “set to,” “subject to,” “upcoming” and other similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at contract inception.


item2.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for Activision.


item3.txt
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


