We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Q2 2018 vs. Q2 2017 · lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
· higher net bookings from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.