fls.txt



item1.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $17 million and $13 million, respectively.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”).
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.
· recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
The increase was partially offset by lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.


item3.txt
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt



