fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.


item3.txt
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Initial Decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $379 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.


