Item 1. Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 
Basis of Presentation
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Use of Estimates
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Consequently, this update eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than for inventory until the assets have been sold to an outside party. This update requires entities to apply a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to 
beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. In addition, entities are required to record deferred tax balances with an offset to retained earnings for unrecognized amounts that will be recognized under this update. We applied all changes required by this update using the modified retrospective approach from the beginning of fiscal 2018. Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue that is recognized, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures. This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures). In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that deferred the effective date of the standard by one year, while continuing to permit entities to elect to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.
•Completing an inventory of our outstanding contracts and revenue streams;
•Drafting a Company-wide revenue recognition policy reflecting the requirements of this standard and tailored to our businesses;
•Providing Company-wide training to affected employees, including in the areas of accounting, finance, contracts, tax and segment management; 
•Initiating the process of reviewing the additional disclosure requirements of this standard and the potential impact on our accounting systems and internal control structure.
•The number of distinct performance obligations within our contractual arrangements;
•Contract modifications;
•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language; 
•Incremental costs of obtaining a contract; and
•Estimation and recognition of variable consideration for contracts to provide services.
approach, effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2019. The full retrospective approach would require us to apply this standard to each subsequent period presented and to recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this standard as of the beginning of our fiscal 2017 - the earliest comparative period to be presented subsequent to adoption. However, a final determination on whether we will adopt this standard using the full retrospective or the modified retrospective approach has not yet been made as we will continue our evaluation of the impact of this standard over the next quarter.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to existing lease guidance under GAAP. Entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with the option to use certain relief. Full retrospective application is prohibited. This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact this standard will have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
In March 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to improve the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations. This update must be applied retrospectively and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019. Adopting this update will result in a decrease in operating income and an increase in the net non-operating components of income from continuing operations of $164 million and $183 million for fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively. Adopting this update will not have a material impact on our financial position or cash flows. 
Note B — Discontinued Operations 
IT Services
On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C. (“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, and recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share) on the sale after transaction expenses. The decision to divest IT Services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. IT Services was part of our former Critical Networks segment and in connection with the definitive agreement to sell IT Services, as described above, the remaining operations that had been part of the Critical Networks segment, including our air traffic management (“ATM”) business, primarily serving the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated. We agreed to provide various transition services to Veritas for a period of up to 18 months following the closing of the transaction pursuant to a separate agreement. 
On January 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to SpeedCast International Ltd. (“SpeedCast”) of CapRock, which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million, and recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million ($61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share) on the sale after transaction expenses and purchase adjustments in respect of net cash and net working capital as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into November 1, 2016.
Note C — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 
During the three quarters ended March 30, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”). Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP. We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders. Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs). The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and $12 million and $32 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017, respectively. 
Note D — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs 
Restructuring, Exelis Acquisition-Related Integration and Other Charges
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $26 million at March 30, 2018 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. The majority of the remaining liabilities as of March 30, 2018 will be paid within the next twelve months. 
Other Exit-Related Charges
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we recorded $45 million of charges in connection with our decision to transition and exit a commercial line of business that had been developing an air-to-ground radio access network for the business aviation market based on the Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) standard operating in the unlicensed spectrum. These charges are included as a component of “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). We had a liability of $21 million at March 30, 2018 associated with this exit activity which we expect will be paid within the next twelve months. 
Note E — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
Note F — Receivables 
We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution. Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale. Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material as of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017. 
Note G — Inventories 
Unbilled costs and accrued earnings on fixed-price contracts were net of progress payments of $89 million and $90 million at March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $33 million and $106 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and $35 million and $109 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
Note I — Accrued Warranties 
Note J — Long-Term Debt 
On February 27, 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due February 27, 2019 (“Floating Rate Notes 2019”). We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes 2019, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes 2019, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The Floating Rate Notes 2019 will bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.475% per year. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on May 27, 2018, August 27, 2018, November 27, 2018 and February 27, 2019, commencing May 27, 2018. The Floating Rate Notes 2019 are not redeemable at our option prior to maturity. Upon a change of control combined with a below-investment-grade rating event, we may be required to make an offer to repurchase the Floating Rate Notes 2019 at a price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Notes 2019 being repurchased, plus accrued interest on the Floating Rate Notes 2019 being repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase. We used the net proceeds from the sale of the Floating Rate Notes 2019 to make a voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
On November 6, 2017, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due April 30, 2020 (“Floating Rate Notes 2020”). We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes 2020, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes 2020, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The Floating Rate Notes 2020 will bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.48% per year. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 of each year, commencing January 30, 2018. The Floating Rate Notes 2020 are not redeemable at our option prior to maturity. Upon a change of control combined with a below-investment-grade rating event, we may be required to make an offer to repurchase the Floating Rate Notes 2020 at a price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Notes 2020 being repurchased, plus accrued interest on the Floating Rate Notes 2020 being repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
In connection with the closing of the sale of the Floating Rate Notes 2020, we used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, and recognized a $1 million extinguishment loss, which is included as a component of the “Non-operating income (loss)” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited), as a result of associated unamortized debt issuance costs.
We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans. As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as the $400 million voluntary contribution made during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018. We contributed $40 million and $143 million to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
The U.S. Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S. SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.4 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.6 billion as of June 30, 2017. Effective December 31, 2016, future benefit accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance defined benefit formula for certain non-highly compensated employees.
Note L — Income From Continuing Operations Per Common Share 
Tax Reform
•$52 million ($.43 per diluted share) from estimated write-down of existing net deferred tax asset balances based on the lower tax rate and other law changes; and
•$26 million ($.21 per diluted share) of benefit from the impact of our lower estimated fiscal 2018 tax rate. 
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we changed our estimated write-down of existing net deferred tax asset balances associated with the Tax Act to $19 million ($.15 per diluted share) and recognized an income tax benefit of $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) to adjust the provisional amount recorded in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ended December 29, 2017. This adjustment was primarily due to revaluing our deferred tax asset related to our $300 million voluntary pension contribution made during the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
Effective Tax Rate
Our effective tax rate was 24.6 percent in the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 compared with 29.7 percent in the three quarters ended March 31, 2017. In addition to the impact of the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions, the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments and the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation. In the three quarters ended March 31, 2017, our effective tax rate was impacted by the discrete items noted above favorably impacting the quarter ended March 31, 2017. 
•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.
In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.
Note O — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
At March 30, 2018, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $28 million, of which $4 million were classified as fair value hedges and $24 million were classified as cash flow hedges. This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $33 million at June 30, 2017, of which $2 million were classified as fair value hedges and $31 million were classified as cash flow hedges. At March 30, 2018, contract expiration dates ranged from 11 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months. 
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. As of March 30, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge certain balance sheet items. The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges. 
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. As of March 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in the Euro, British Pound and Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 or in the quarter and three quarters ended March 31, 2017. 
Note P — Changes in Estimates 
Estimate at Completion Adjustments
Development and production contracts are combined when specific aggregation criteria are met. Criteria generally include closely interrelated activities performed for a single customer within the same economic environment. Development and production contracts are generally not segmented. If development and production contracts are segmented, we have determined that they meet specific segmenting criteria. Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable. Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion. The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract. As the cost-
Note Q — Business Segments 
•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 
•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and 
•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 
Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Harris Corporation
We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of March 30, 2018, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business 
•Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions;
•Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and
•Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. Government) and the public generally. 
