item1.txt
The effect of this change is not material to the consolidated financial statements, and therefore, the impact of eliminating the one-month reporting lag has been included in the Company’s results of operations for the three months and nine months ended June 24, 2018.
The Company currently accounts for customer incentive arrangements in its licensing and semiconductor businesses, including volume-related and other pricing rebates or cost reimbursements for marketing and other activities involving certain of the Company’s products and technologies, in part based on the maximum potential liability.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and generally requires the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, except for certain financial assets where the prospective transition method is required, such as available-for-sale debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment has been recorded.
The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, and is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.
At June 24, 2018, the Company had restricted cash and cash equivalents of $2.0 billion related to funds deposited as collateral for outstanding letters of credit in connection with the NXP Purchase Agreement (Note 8), and $2.8 billion related to irrevocably deposited cash to redeem notes in July 2018 (Note 5).
Other expenses in the three and nine months ended June 24, 2018 included $112 million and $422 million, respectively, in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to the Company’s Cost Plan (Note 9).
Other expenses in the nine months ended June 25, 2017 consisted of a $927 million charge related to the KFTC fine, including related foreign currency losses, and $35 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to the Company’s Strategic Realignment Plan.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a new tax incentive agreement in Singapore that results in a reduced tax rate from March 2017 through March 2022, provided that the Company meets specified employment and investment criteria in Singapore.
As a result of this new tax incentive, the Company’s estimated income tax expense for fiscal 2018 was reduced by approximately $126 million.
In the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017, the Company repurchased and retired 24.2 million and 16.7 million shares for $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, before commissions.
At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.
At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had $3.2 billion and $999 million, respectively, of outstanding commercial paper included in short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.34% and 1.19%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers, and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 46 days and 45 days, respectively.
At June 24, 2018, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1.8 billion related to the May 2015 Notes, which effectively converted approximately 43% and 50% of the fixed-rate notes due in 2020 and 2022, respectively, into floating-rate notes.
Cash interest paid related to the Company’s commercial paper program and long-term debt, net of cash received from the related interest rate swaps, was $594 million and $289 million in the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017, respectively.
The 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, the 2016 Term Loan Facility, the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility and the 2018 Term Loan Facility require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
On December 14, 2015, ParkerVision filed another complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida alleging patent infringement.
The complaint asserts that certain of the Company’s products infringe four additional ParkerVision patents and seeks damages and other relief.
On April 10, 2017, the Company filed its Answer and Counterclaims (amended on May 24, 2017) in response to Apple’s complaint denying Apple’s claims and asserting claims against Apple.
The counterclaims against Apple include tortious interference with the Company’s long-standing Subscriber Unit License Agreements (SULAs) with third-party contract manufacturers of Apple devices, causing those contract manufacturers to withhold certain royalty payments owed to the Company and violate their audit obligations; breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing relating to the parties’ Cooperation Agreement; unjust enrichment and declaratory relief relating to the Cooperation Agreement; breach of contract based on Apple’s failure to pay amounts owed to the Company under a Statement of Work relating to a high-speed feature of the Company’s chipsets; breach of the parties’ software agreement; and violation of California Unfair Competition Law based on Apple’s threatening the Company to prevent it from promoting the superior performance of the Company’s own chipsets.
On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss the Company’s counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law. The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017.
On June 20, 2017, Apple filed an Answer and Affirmative Defenses to the rest of the Company’s counterclaims, and also filed an Amended Complaint reiterating all of the original claims and adding claims for declaratory judgments of invalidity of the nine patents that are subject to declaratory judgment claims in the original complaint, adding new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for nine more patents.
On July 21, 2017, the Company filed an Answer to Apple’s Amended Complaint as well as a motion to dismiss the new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for the nine additional patents.
On January 23, 2017, an Apple subsidiary in China filed two complaints against the Company in the Beijing Intellectual Property Court.
One of the complaints alleges a violation of China’s Anti-Monopoly Law (AML complaint); the other complaint requests a determination of the terms of a patent license between the Company and Apple (FRAND complaint).
The AML complaint alleges that (i) the Company has abused its dominant position in communication standard-essential patents licensing markets and certain global baseband chipset markets by charging and offering royalty terms that were excessively high; (ii) the Company refused to license certain implementers of standardized technologies, including Apple and baseband chipset manufacturers; (iii) the Company forced Apple to use only the Company’s products and services; and (iv) the Company bundled licenses to standard-essential patents with licenses to non-standard-essential patents and imposed other unreasonable or discriminatory trading terms on Apple in violation of the AML.
The AML complaint seeks a decree that the Company cease the alleged abuse of dominance, as well as damages in the amount of 1 billion Chinese Renminbi (approximately $154 million based on the exchange rate on June 24, 2018).
The FRAND complaint makes allegations similar to the AML complaint and further alleges that the Company refused to offer licensing terms for the Company’s cellular standard-essential patents consistent with the Company’s FRAND licensing commitments and failed to provide to Apple certain information about the Company’s patents.
The FRAND complaint seeks (i) a declaration that the license terms offered to Apple by the Company for its mobile communication standard essential patents are not compliant with FRAND; (ii) an order that the Company cease its actions that allegedly violate the Company’s FRAND obligations, including pricing on unfair, unreasonable and excessive terms, refusing to deal, imposing unreasonable trade conditions and failing to provide information on the Company’s patents; and (iii) a determination of FRAND-compliant license terms for the Company’s Chinese standard-essential patents.
On August 3, 2017, the Company received three additional complaints filed by an Apple subsidiary and Apple Inc. against the Company in the Beijing Intellectual Property Court.
The Company filed jurisdictional and other objections to the complaints, which the court denied on May 31, 2018.
On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against the Company in the Tokyo District Court.
In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of the Company’s patents.
In that complaint, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries seek damages of 100 million Japanese Yen (approximately $1 million based on the exchange rate on June 24, 2018) from the Company, based on allegations that the Company violated the Japanese Antimonopoly Act and the Japanese Civil Code.
In particular, the fourth complaint alleges that (i) the Company holds a monopoly position in the market for baseband processor chipsets that implement certain cellular standards; (ii) the Company collects double royalties through its license agreements and the sale of chipsets; (iii) the Company refused to grant Apple a license on FRAND terms and forced Apple to execute a rebate agreement under unreasonable conditions; (iv) the Company refused to grant Apple a direct license; and (v) the Company demanded a license fee based on the market value of the total device.
On November 1, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies.
The complaint recounts instances when Apple failed to protect the Company’s software as required by the agreement and failed to provide sufficient information to which the Company is entitled under the agreement in order to understand whether other breaches have occurred.
On November 30, 2017, the Company filed a complaint in the ITC accusing certain Apple products of infringing five of the Company’s patents.
On November 15, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
On January 12, 2018, the Company filed three additional complaints against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three additional Company patents.
On February 2, 2018, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Qingdao (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
Also on February 2, 2018, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Guangzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
On June 14, 2018, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Guangdong (China) High People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
The Company recorded a charge of $1.18 billion to other expenses related to the EC fine in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization.
At June 24, 2018, the Company was committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $544 million, of which $218 million, $37 million and $74 million was expected to be funded in the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 
In such case, the Company could be required to pay NXP a termination fee of $2.0 billion if the transaction is subsequently terminated in certain circumstances, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at June 24, 2018 were comprised of convertible debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
Given the Company’s intention to sell certain marketable securities, the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for certain marketable securities, and no additional losses were recorded in the nine months ended June 24, 2018.


item2.txt
We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights.
The decrease in equipment and services revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in QSI revenues, partially offset by an increase in QCT revenues.
The increase in licensing revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in QTL revenues.
The decrease in licensing revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in QTL revenues, partially offset by the reduction to revenues of $962 million recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 related to the BlackBerry arbitration decision.
The dollar increases in research and development expenses in the third quarter and first nine months fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to increases, which are net of cost decreases driven by actions taken under our Cost Plan, of $31 million and $192 million, respectively, in costs related to the development of integrated circuit technologies, including 5G technology and RFFE technologies from our RF360 Holdings joint venture, which was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
The dollar increase in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by a $30 million impairment charge on certain intangible assets recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $162 million and $413 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, related to litigation costs, an increase of $102 million and $275 million, respectively.
Excluding the increase in litigation costs, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $157 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to decreases of $60 million in other professional fees and costs related to other legal matters, principally related to third-party acquisition and integration services, $31 million in other expenses and $30 million in employee-related expenses driven by actions taken under our Cost Plan, $30 million in share-based compensation expense, primarily due to an increase in forfeitures, and $16 million in amortization of intangible assets.
Excluding the increase in litigation costs, selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $105 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to increases of $118 million in professional fees and costs related to other legal matters, which was primarily driven by Broadcom’s withdrawn takeover proposal and $45 million in bad debt expense, partially offset by decreases of $45 million in share-based compensation expense, primarily due to an increase in forfeitures and actions take under our Cost Plan, and $16 million in amortization of intangible assets.
Other expenses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 included $112 million and $422 million, respectively, in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan.
The increases in interest expense in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes in May 2017.
The net gains on foreign currency transactions in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to currency exchange rate movements on amounts accrued for the EC and Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC) fines, as well as the impact of currency exchange rate movements on certain monetary assets and liabilities of our RF360 Holdings joint venture.
We have preliminarily accounted for the effects of the Tax Legislation, which resulted in a charge of $5.73 billion to income tax expense recorded discretely in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, comprised of $5.3 billion related to the estimated Toll Charge and $412 million resulting from the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 at a lower enacted corporate income tax rate.
These amounts included a $135 million tax benefit in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the remeasurement of a U.S. deferred tax liability that was established as a result of a change in one of our positions due to Tax Legislation.
In addition, we recorded $12 million net tax expense discretely in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to refining estimates associated with the estimated Toll Charge and the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new tax incentive agreement in Singapore that results in a reduced tax rate from March 2017 through March 2022, provided that we meet specified employment and investment criteria in Singapore.
Our annual effective tax rate is estimated to be approximately 264% for fiscal 2018 as compared to the 18% effective income tax rate for fiscal 2017, primarily as a result of the estimated charge of $5.82 billion recorded to income tax expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to the combined effect of the Toll Charge, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our decision to no longer indefinitely reinvest certain foreign earnings, all of which resulted from the Tax Legislation.
Tax benefits from foreign income taxed at rates lower than rates in the U.S. are expected to be approximately 37% in fiscal 2018, compared to 32% in fiscal 2017, primarily due to lower estimated U.S. revenues principally related to decreased royalty revenues from Apple’s contract manufacturers, an increase in the allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and the new tax incentive in Singapore, partially offset by the lower U.S. federal statutory income tax rate enacted by the Tax Legislation.
The effective tax rate of 28% benefit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was lower than the estimated annual effective tax rate primarily due to the estimated charge of $5.95 billion recorded discretely to income tax expense in the first six months of fiscal 2018 related to the effects of certain components of the Tax Legislation and the EC fine recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as well as tax benefits recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulting from an increase in the allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and the new tax incentive in Singapore.
The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 for each reportable segment included in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7.
The increases in QCT equipment and services revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to increases in RFFE product revenues of $75 million and $823 million, respectively, primarily driven by revenues from our RF360 Holdings joint venture, which was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, and reflected the impact of eliminating a one-month reporting lag in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, and increases of $166 million and $559 million, respectively, primarily related to higher MSM and accompanying unit shipments driven primarily by higher demand from OEMs in China, partially offset by a decline in share at Apple.
The increase in QCT revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by decreases of $178 million resulting from lower average selling prices and unfavorable product mix and $31 million in connectivity product revenues.
The increase in QCT revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by decreases of $422 million resulting from the net impact of lower average selling prices and favorable product mix and $131 million in connectivity product revenues.
QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to net gains on foreign currency transactions related to our RF360 Holdings joint venture, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin percentage.
QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to an increase in gross margin percentage and the favorable impact of higher revenues relative to operating expenses.
QTL results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by our continued dispute with Apple and its contract manufacturers (who are Qualcomm licensees).
We did not record any revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s products.
QTL revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 included $500 million paid under an interim agreement with the other licensee in dispute.
We did not record any revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 for royalties due on the sales of Apple’s and the other licensee’s products.
Additionally, QTL revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by lower royalty revenues recognized related to devices sold in prior periods from certain other licensees.
Excluding the impact of these items, QTL revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased primarily due to a decrease in reported sales of CDMA-based products (including multi-mode products that also implement OFDMA) and revenues per reported unit, while QTL revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to increases in reported sales of CDMA-based products (including multi-mode products that also implement OFDMA) and revenues per reported unit.
QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased primarily due to increases in selling, general and administrative expenses resulting from higher litigation costs.
QTL revenues and EBT also continued to be impacted negatively by units that we believe are not being reported by certain other licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products.
The decrease in QSI EBT in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of $36 million resulting from lower revenues from certain development contracts with one of our equity method investees and a decrease of $32 million in net realized gains on investments.
QCT revenues from modem sales for iPhones are expected to decline in fiscal 2018 and may continue to decline in the future, in part depending on the extent of Apple’s utilization of competitors’ modems and the mix of the various versions of its products that are sold.
Overall QCT revenues, as well as profitability, may similarly decline unless offset by sales of integrated circuit products to other customers, including those outside of traditional cellular industries, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), automotive and networking.
Apple’s sourcing of integrated circuit products does not impact our licensing revenues since our licensing revenues from Apple products are not dependent upon whether such products include our chipsets;
Even if we receive approval of the NXP transaction from SAMR, or there are other material developments that cause us to not terminate the NXP acquisition, the proposed transaction involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
Our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5G, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations.
In particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as RFFE, and adjacent industry segments, such as automotive, IoT (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), networking, computing and machine learning, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third parties incorporating our technology, products and services into devices used in these product areas and industry segments.
There are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with TDK, RF360 Holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties.
affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade and trade protection including tariffs, foreign currency, investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, export control, privacy and data protection, environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, corporate governance, public disclosure or business conduct could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Certain of our software and our suppliers’ software may contain or may be derived from “open source” software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product’s source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions.


part2.txt
Information regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6.


