item1.txt
At December 24, 2017, total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock units granted prior to that date was $1.5 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
Under the new guidance, the Company will be required to estimate and recognize sales-based royalties in the period in which the associated sales occur, resulting in an acceleration of revenue recognition compared to the current method.
Upon adoption of the new guidance, licenses to use portions of the Company’s intellectual property portfolio will be considered one performance obligation, and license fees will be recognized as revenues on a straight-line basis over the term of the license agreement, which is similar to the recognition of license revenues under the current guidance.
The Company currently accounts for customer incentive arrangements in its licensing and semiconductor businesses, including volume-related and other pricing rebates or cost reimbursements for marketing and other activities involving certain of the Company’s products and technologies, in part based on the maximum potential liability.
As a result of the Toll Charge imposed by the Tax Legislation, the Company expects to fully utilize all of its unused federal tax credits that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 of $1.1 billion, which resulted in a reduction to non-current deferred tax assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and the federal tax credits that are expected to be generated in fiscal 2018.
The cash amount the Company currently estimates will be paid for the Toll Charge, net of tax credit carryforwards and expected tax credits estimated to be generated in fiscal 2018, is $3.3 billion and was recorded in long-term income taxes payable.
In the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the Company repurchased and retired 3.7 million and 6.6 million shares for $225 million and $444 million, respectively, before commissions.
At December 24, 2017, $1.4 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the Company’s stock repurchase program.
The Company has an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.
The Company is party to a Credit Agreement that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion (Term Loan Facility).
Commitments under the Term Loan Facility will expire on the first to occur of (i) the consummation of the proposed acquisition of NXP without using loans under the Term Loan Facility, (ii) the termination of Qualcomm River Holdings’s obligation to consummate the proposed acquisition of NXP and (iii) April 25, 2018 (which reflects a second automatic extension of the original expiration date of October 27, 2017 in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement, and as such date may be further extended in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement).
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the Term Loan Facility.
The Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
The Company is not subject to any financial covenants under the notes nor any covenants that would prohibit the Company from incurring additional indebtedness ranking equal to the notes, paying dividends, issuing securities or repurchasing securities issued by it or its subsidiaries.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the applicable covenants under each facility outstanding at such time.
On December 14, 2015, ParkerVision filed another complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida alleging patent infringement.
The complaint asserts that certain of the Company’s products infringe four additional ParkerVision patents and seeks damages and other relief.
On January 13, 2016, the Company served its answer to the District Court complaint.
On April 10, 2017, the Company filed its Answer and Counterclaims (amended on May 24, 2017) in response to Apple’s complaint denying Apple’s claims and asserting claims against Apple.
The counterclaims against Apple include tortious interference with the Company’s long-standing Subscriber Unit License Agreements (SULAs) with third-party contract manufacturers of Apple devices, causing those contract manufacturers to withhold certain royalty payments owed to the Company and violate their audit obligations; breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing relating to the parties’ Cooperation Agreement; unjust enrichment and declaratory relief relating to the Cooperation Agreement; breach of contract based on Apple’s failure to pay amounts owed to the Company under a Statement of Work relating to a high-speed feature of the Company’s chipsets; breach of the parties’ software agreement; and violation of California Unfair Competition Law based on Apple’s threatening the Company to prevent it from promoting the superior performance of the Company’s own chipsets.
On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss the Company’s counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law. The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017.
On June 20, 2017, Apple filed an Answer and Affirmative Defenses to the rest of the Company’s counterclaims, and also filed an Amended Complaint reiterating all of the original claims and adding claims for declaratory judgments of invalidity of the nine patents that are subject to declaratory judgment claims in the original complaint, adding new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for nine more patents.
Apple also added claims for declaratory judgments that certain of the Company’s agreements are unenforceable.
On July 21, 2017, the Company filed an Answer to Apple’s Amended Complaint as well as a motion to dismiss the new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for the nine additional patents.
On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against the Company in the Tokyo District Court.
In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of the Company’s patents.
In that complaint, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries seek damages of 100 million Japanese Yen (approximately $1 million based on the exchange rate on December 24, 2017) from the Company, based on allegations that the Company violated the Japanese Antimonopoly Act and the Japanese Civil Code.
In particular, the fourth complaint alleges that (i) the Company holds a monopoly position in the market for baseband processor chipsets that implement certain cellular standards; (ii) the Company collects double royalties through its license agreements and the sale of chipsets; (iii) the Company refused to grant Apple a license on FRAND terms and forced Apple to execute a rebate agreement under unreasonable conditions; (iv) the Company refused to grant Apple a direct license; and (v) the Company demanded a license fee based on the market value of the total device.
On November 1, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies.
The complaint recounts instances when Apple failed to protect the Company’s software as required by the agreement and failed to provide sufficient information to which the Company is entitled under the agreement in order to understand whether other breaches have occurred.
The complaint seeks specific performance of Apple’s obligations to cooperate with an audit of its handling of the Company’s software, damages and injunctive relief.
On November 13, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Beijing (China) High People’s Court, asserting infringement of three patents.
On November 15, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three patents.
On January 12, 2018, the Company filed three additional complaints against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three additional patents.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization.
At December 24, 2017, the Company was committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $433 million, of which $65 million and $61 million is expected to be funded in the remainder of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2021, respectively.
The Company recognized $843 million in goodwill related to this transaction, of which $366 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
In May 2017, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities, of which a portion will be used to fund the purchase price and other related transactions.
In addition, the Company has secured $4.0 billion in committed financing through a Term Loan Facility, which is expected to be drawn on at the close of the NXP transaction (Note 5).
In November 2016, as required by the definitive agreement, Qualcomm River Holdings entered into four letters of credit for an aggregate amount of $2.0 billion related to the potential termination fee payable to NXP.
Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at December 24, 2017 were comprised of convertible debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
In connection with the proposed NXP transaction (Note 8), the Company divested a substantial portion of its marketable securities portfolio in order to finance, in part, that transaction.
Given the change in the Company’s intention to sell certain marketable securities, the Company recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for certain marketable securities and no additional losses were recognized in the three months ended December 24, 2017 (Note 2).
For the available-for-sale securities that are not expected to be sold to finance the NXP transaction, the Company concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary at December 24, 2017.


item2.txt
•We continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4G- and 5G-based technologies as well as other technologies to extend the demand for our products and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities, including within adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, the Internet of Things (IoT) and networking.
We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights.
Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
The dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $141 million in costs related to the development of integrated circuit technologies, including 5G technology and radio frequency front-end (RFFE) technologies from our RF360 Holdings joint venture, which was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, and related software products, partially offset by a $30 million impairment charge on certain intangible assets recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
The dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to increases of $60 million in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, primarily related to our licensing business, $45 million in bad debt expenses, $22 million in marketing expenses and $18 million in employee-related expenses, which included our RF360 Holdings joint venture.
We have preliminarily accounted for the effects of the Tax Legislation, which resulted in a charge of $5.9 billion to income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, comprised of $5.3 billion related to the estimated Toll Charge and $562 million resulting from the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 at a lower enacted corporate income tax rate.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher than the estimated annual effective tax rate primarily resulting from the estimated charge of $6.0 billion recorded to income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the effects of certain components of the Tax Legislation, as well as the $1.2 billion fine related to the EC investigation.
The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for each reportable segment included in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7.
We did not record any revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s or the other licensee’s products.
Revenues related to the products of Apple’s contract manufacturers and the other licensee in dispute comprised approximately $740 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Excluding the impact of these disputes, QTL revenues increased primarily as a result of increases in reported sales of CDMA-based products (including multi-mode products that also implement OFDMA) and revenues per reported unit.
QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to the decrease in QTL revenues and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses resulting from higher legal costs and bad debt expense related to a licensee that is facing significant financial difficulties.
QTL revenues and EBT also continued to be impacted negatively by units that we believe are not being reported by certain other licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products.
The increase in QSI EBT was primarily due to the net impact of $10 million resulting from higher revenues and costs associated with certain development contracts with one of our equity method investees and the combined impact of $22 million resulting from higher net realized gains on investments and lower impairment losses.
We have taken action against Apple’s contract manufacturers, to compel such licensees to pay the required royalties, and against Apple, as described more fully elsewhere in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6.” Additionally, the other licensee in dispute did not report or pay royalties due in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We did not record any revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s or the other licensee’s products, and as a result, QTL revenues and EBT were negatively impacted by these continued disputes.
We expect these companies will continue to take such actions in the future, resulting in increased legal costs and negatively impacting our future revenues, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows until the respective disputes are resolved.
Accordingly, QCT revenues from modem sales for iPhones declined in fiscal 2017 and may continue to decline in the future, in part depending on the extent of Apple’s utilization of competitors’ modems and the mix of the various versions of its products that are sold.
Overall QCT revenues, as well as profitability, may similarly decline unless offset by sales of integrated circuit products to other customers, including those outside of traditional cellular industries, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), automotive and networking.
Apple’s dual sourcing does not impact our licensing revenues since our licensing revenues from Apple products are not dependent upon whether such products include our chipsets;
Our proposed acquisition of NXP Semiconductors N.V. involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition, in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
Our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies; our customers’ and licensees’ sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers’ demand for our products and services.
If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected.
One of our largest customers purchases our Mobile Data Modem (MDM) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products.
If we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products.
See also the Risk Factor entitled “Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.”
Our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our technologies, products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as RFFE, and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, IoT and networking, among others.
Our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5G, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations.
In particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as RFFE, and adjacent industry segments, such as automotive, IoT (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), data center, networking, computing and machine learning, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third parties incorporating our technology, products and services into devices used in these product areas and industry segments.
There are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with TDK, RF360 Holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties.
If tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs.
If we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and future standards (such as 5G), products and services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted.
Standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties at all or that are equivalent to those that we receive for products used in cellular communications.
If there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee’s product sales.
These laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., suppliers, third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us.
See the Risk Factor entitled “There are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with TDK, RF360 Holdings, including high fixed costs, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties.”
The verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products.
Certain of our software and our suppliers’ software may contain or may be derived from “open source” software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product’s source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions.
Certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6.
If we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our Singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.
Global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers’ or licensees’ products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues.
Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our products.
Failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business.


item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such terms are defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities 


part2.txt
Not applicable.


