item1.txt
The Company currently accounts for customer incentive arrangements in its licensing and semiconductor businesses, including volume-related and other pricing rebates or cost reimbursements for marketing and other activities involving certain of the Company’s products and technologies, in part based on the maximum potential liability.
Other expenses in the three months ended March 26, 2017 consisted of $53 million in foreign currency losses related to the fine imposed by the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC), which was accrued in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and $25 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to the Company’s Strategic Realignment Plan.
expenses in the six months ended March 26, 2017 consisted of a $921 million charge related to the KFTC fine, including related foreign currency losses, and $33 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to the Company’s Strategic Realignment Plan.
As a result of the Toll Charge imposed by the Tax Legislation, the Company expects to fully utilize all of its unused federal tax credits that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 of $1.1 billion, which resulted in a reduction to noncurrent deferred tax assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and the federal tax credits that are expected to be generated in fiscal 2018.
The cash amount the Company currently estimates will be paid for the Toll Charge, net of tax credit carryforwards and expected tax credits estimated to be generated in fiscal 2018, is $3.2 billion.
In the six months ended March 25, 2018 and March 26, 2017, the Company repurchased and retired 6.8 million and 11.5 million shares for $425 million and $727 million, respectively, before commissions.
At March 25, 2018, $1.2 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the Company’s stock repurchase program.
On March 23, 2018, the Company’s stockholders approved an amendment to the Amended and Restated QUALCOMM Incorporated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the share reserve by 30,000,000 shares to approximately 101,709,000.
The Company has an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively.
At March 25, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.
In March 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement, which was amended on April 20, 2018 in connection with Amendment No. 2 to the NXP purchase agreement (Amendment No. 2) (Note 8), that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw revolving facility loans in an aggregate amount of $3.0 billion (as amended, the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility).
Loans under the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility will mature on December 31, 2018 and will bear interest, at the option of the Company, at either the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate (determined in accordance with the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility) or the Base Rate (determined in accordance with the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility), in each case plus an applicable margin based on the Company’s long-term unsecured senior, non-credit enhanced debt ratings.
At March 25, 2018, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility.
At March 25, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had $2.2 billion and $999 million, respectively, of outstanding commercial paper included in short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 1.98% and 1.19%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers, and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 44 days and 45 days, respectively.
The Company is party to a credit agreement, which was amended on April 20, 2018, in connection with Amendment No. 2, that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion (as amended, the 2016 Term Loan Facility).
At March 25, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2016 Term Loan Facility.
In March 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement, which was amended on April 20, 2018 in connection with Amendment No. 2, that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $3.0 billion (as amended, the 2018 Term Loan Facility).
The 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, the 2016 Term Loan Facility, the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility and the 2018 Term Loan Facility require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
At March 25, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the applicable covenants under each facility outstanding at such time.
On December 14, 2015, ParkerVision filed another complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida alleging patent infringement.
The complaint asserts that certain of the Company’s products infringe four additional ParkerVision patents and seeks damages and other relief.
On April 10, 2017, the Company filed its Answer and Counterclaims (amended on May 24, 2017) in response to Apple’s complaint denying Apple’s claims and asserting claims against Apple.
The counterclaims against Apple include tortious interference with the Company’s long-standing Subscriber Unit License Agreements (SULAs) with third-party contract manufacturers of Apple devices, causing those contract manufacturers to withhold certain royalty payments owed to the Company and violate their audit obligations; breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing relating to the parties’ Cooperation Agreement; unjust enrichment and declaratory relief relating to the Cooperation Agreement; breach of contract based on Apple’s failure to pay amounts owed to the Company under a Statement of Work relating to a high-speed feature of the Company’s chipsets; breach of the parties’ software agreement; and violation of California Unfair Competition Law based on Apple’s threatening the Company to prevent it from promoting the superior performance of the Company’s own chipsets.
On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss the Company’s counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law. The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017.
On June 20, 2017, Apple filed an Answer and Affirmative Defenses to the rest of the Company’s counterclaims, and also filed an Amended Complaint reiterating all of the original claims and adding claims for declaratory judgments of invalidity of the nine patents that are subject to declaratory judgment claims in the original complaint, adding new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for nine more patents.
On July 21, 2017, the Company filed an Answer to Apple’s Amended Complaint as well as a motion to dismiss the new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for the nine additional patents.
On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against the Company in the Tokyo District Court.
In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of the Company’s patents.
In that complaint, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries seek damages of 100 million Japanese Yen (approximately $1 million based on the exchange rate on March 25, 2018) from the Company, based on allegations that the Company violated the Japanese Antimonopoly Act and the Japanese Civil Code.
In particular, the fourth complaint alleges that (i) the Company holds a monopoly position in the market for baseband processor chipsets that implement certain cellular standards; (ii) the Company collects double royalties through its license agreements and the sale of chipsets; (iii) the Company refused to grant Apple a license on FRAND terms and forced Apple to execute a rebate agreement under unreasonable conditions; (iv) the Company refused to grant Apple a direct license; and (v) the Company demanded a license fee based on the market value of the total device.
On November 1, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies.
On November 30, 2017, the Company filed a complaint in the ITC accusing certain Apple products of infringing five of the Company’s patents.
On November 13, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Beijing (China) High People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
On November 15, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
On January 12, 2018, the Company filed three additional complaints against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries in the Fuzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three additional Company patents.
On February 2, 2018, the Company filed three additional complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Qingdao (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
Also on February 2, 2018, the Company filed three additional complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Guangzhou (China) Intermediate People’s Court, asserting infringement of three of the Company’s patents.
The Company recorded a charge of $1.18 billion to other expenses related to the EC fine in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization.
At March 25, 2018, the Company was committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $414 million, of which $77 million and $72 million is expected to be funded in the remainder of fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2021, respectively.
In May 2017, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities, of which a portion will be used to fund the purchase price and other related transactions.
In addition, the Company has secured $4.0 billion and $3.0 billion in committed financing through the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2018 Term Loan Facility, respectively, which are expected to be drawn on at the close of the NXP transaction.
The Company has also secured $3.0 billion in committed financing through the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility, which is available, in part, to finance the transaction (Note 5).
During the three months ended March 25, 2018, the Company recorded restructuring and restructuring-related charges of $310 million in other expenses (Note 2), which consisted of restructuring charges of $277 million, primarily related to severance costs, and restructuring-related charges of $33 million related to certain asset impairments.
Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at March 25, 2018 were comprised of convertible debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
Given the Company’s intention to sell certain marketable securities, the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for certain marketable securities and no additional losses were recorded in the six months ended March 25, 2018 (Note 2).
For the available-for-sale securities that are not expected to be sold to finance the NXP transaction, the Company concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary at March 25, 2018.


item2.txt
•We continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4G- and 5G-based technologies as well as other technologies to extend the demand for our products and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities, including within adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, the Internet of Things (IoT) and networking.
We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights.
The increases in equipment and services revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to increases in QCT and QSI revenues.
The decreases in licensing revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to decreases in QTL revenues, partially offset by the reduction to licensing revenues of $974 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 related to the BlackBerry arbitration decision.
The dollar increases in research and development expenses in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to increases of $19 million and $160 million, respectively, in costs related to the development of integrated circuit technologies, including 5G technology and radio frequency front-end (RFFE) technologies from our RF360 Holdings joint venture, which was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
The increase in research and development expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by a $30 million impairment charge on certain intangible assets recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $145 million and $250 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, related to litigation costs, an increase of $102 million and $171 million, respectively.
The remaining dollar increases in selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to increases of $77 million in each period in other professional fees and $63 million and $65 million, respectively, in costs related to other legal matters, all of which were primarily driven by Broadcom’s withdrawn takeover proposal, and $14 million and $38 million, respectively, in employee-related expenses, which included our RF360 Holdings joint venture.
Other expenses in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 included $310 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan.
The increases in interest expense in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were primarily attributable to the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes in May 2017.
We have preliminarily accounted for the effects of the Tax Legislation, which resulted in a charge of $5.87 billion to income tax expense recorded discretely in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, comprised of $5.3 billion related to the estimated Toll Charge and $562 million resulting from the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 at a lower enacted corporate income tax rate.
We recorded a $15 million net tax benefit discretely in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to refining estimates associated with the estimated Toll Charge and the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was lower than the estimated annual effective tax rate primarily resulting from the estimated charge of $5.96 billion recorded discretely to income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the effects of certain components of the Tax Legislation and the EC fine recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as well as the $15 million net tax benefit recorded discretely in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to refining estimates associated with the Tax Legislation.
The effective tax rates of 13% and 17% for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2017, respectively, reflected tax benefits from foreign income taxed at rates lower than rates in the U.S. of 25% and 20%, respectively, primarily resulting from the reduction to our United States revenues related to the BlackBerry arbitration decision, as well as the KFTC fine recorded in the first six months of fiscal 2017.
The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 for each reportable segment included in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7.
QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to increases in gross margin percentage and the favorable impact of higher revenues relative to operating expenses.
QCT accounts receivable decreased by 14% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 from $1.81 billion to $1.56 billion, primarily due to a 16% decline in revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, partially offset by the timing of integrated circuit shipments.
QTL results in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by our continued dispute with Apple and its contract manufacturers (who are Qualcomm licensees), as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee.
We did not record any revenues in the first six months of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s or the other licensee’s products.
Royalty revenues related to the products of Apple’s contract manufacturers and the other licensee in dispute were approximately $970 million and $1.7 billion in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2017, respectively.
The decreases in QTL revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 were also attributable to lower royalty revenues recognized related to devices sold in prior periods.
Excluding the impact of these items, QTL revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to increases in revenues per reported unit.
QTL revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were also positively impacted by an increase in reported sales of CDMA-based products (including multi-mode products that also implement OFDMA).
QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased primarily due decreases in QTL revenues and increases in selling, general and administrative expenses resulting from higher litigation costs.
Accordingly, QCT revenues from modem sales for iPhones declined in fiscal 2017 and may continue to decline in the future, in part depending on the extent of Apple’s utilization of competitors’ modems and the mix of the various versions of its products that are sold.
Overall QCT revenues, as well as profitability, may similarly decline unless offset by sales of integrated circuit products to other customers, including those outside of traditional cellular industries, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), automotive and networking.
If the Purchase Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, including termination by NXP to enter into a superior proposal for an alternative acquisition transaction or a termination following a change of recommendation by NXP’s board of directors, NXP will be required to pay Qualcomm River Holdings a termination fee of $1.25 billion.
Our proposed acquisition of NXP Semiconductors N.V. involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
Our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5G, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations.
In particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as RFFE, and adjacent industry segments, such as automotive, IoT (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), data center, networking, computing and machine learning, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third parties incorporating our technology, products and services into devices used in these product areas and industry segments.
There are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with TDK, RF360 Holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties.
The verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products.
Certain of our software and our suppliers’ software may contain or may be derived from “open source” software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product’s source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions.
If we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our Singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.
Global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers’ or licensees’ products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues.
Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our products.
Failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business.


item4.txt
To provide the financial guarantee, the Company entered into (a) a Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement (Uncommitted) dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and BNP Paribas (BNP), pursuant to which BNP has agreed to issue an irrevocable letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €250,000,000 in favor of the EC (the BNP Letter of Credit); (b) a Master Reimbursement Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), pursuant to which Barclays has agreed to issue a standby letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €332,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Barclays Letter of Credit and, together with the BNP Letter of Credit, the Letters of Credit); (c) a General Indemnity Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation (Swiss Re), pursuant to which Swiss Re has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €60,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Swiss Re Guarantee); and (d) a General Agreement of Indemnity dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Euler Hermes North America Insurance Company (Euler), pursuant to which Euler has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €200,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Euler Guarantee).
In addition, pursuant to the Company’s existing General Indemnity Agreement with Zurich American Insurance Company and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd (collectively, Zurich) dated as of October 30, 2017, Zurich will provide a guarantee for an aggregate principal amount of €155,439,000 in favor of the EC (the Zurich Guarantee and, together with the Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee, the Guarantees).


part2.txt
To provide the financial guarantee, the Company entered into (a) a Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement (Uncommitted) dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and BNP Paribas (BNP), pursuant to which BNP has agreed to issue an irrevocable letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €250,000,000 in favor of the EC (the BNP Letter of Credit); (b) a Master Reimbursement Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), pursuant to which Barclays has agreed to issue a standby letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €332,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Barclays Letter of Credit and, together with the BNP Letter of Credit, the Letters of Credit); (c) a General Indemnity Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation (Swiss Re), pursuant to which Swiss Re has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €60,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Swiss Re Guarantee); and (d) a General Agreement of Indemnity dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Euler Hermes North America Insurance Company (Euler), pursuant to which Euler has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €200,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Euler Guarantee).
In addition, pursuant to the Company’s existing General Indemnity Agreement with Zurich American Insurance Company and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd (collectively, Zurich) dated as of October 30, 2017, Zurich will provide a guarantee for an aggregate principal amount of €155,439,000 in favor of the EC (the Zurich Guarantee and, together with the Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee, the Guarantees).


