item1.txt
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of June 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $3.8 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months. 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 196 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $671 thousand, which was paid on June 14, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 20, 2019. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share. Dividends declared and paid totaled $1.3 million, or $0.18 per share for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing. If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating. 
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption. We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019. Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs. We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases. We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases. The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings. 
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives. Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend. The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 


item2.txt
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. In March 2019, we launched a new line of products for the restaurant solutions market, the BOHA! branded suite of cloud-based applications and companion hardware solutions. The new BOHA! products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers. Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
In April 2019, TransAct announced that it has secured commitments from 10 distinct restaurant or foodservice operators representing a broad mix of customers to deploy BOHA! solutions in their operations, and that it expects to roll out approximately 240 BOHA! Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments. 
In June 2019, TransAct announced an agreement with a large, international foodservice brand that includes the deployment of BOHA! hardware and software across an initial 1,000 locations that will roll out by the end of 2019, and based on additional expansions of this customer’s stores and a successful roll out of BOHA!, the potential for additional deployments of BOHA! hardware and software could include 2,000 to 3,000 more locations over the next two to three years. 
Net sales for the second quarter of 2019 decreased $3.4 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 26% to approximately 29 thousand units for the second quarter of 2019 driven by decreases across all our markets, including, primarily a 21% decrease in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 27% decrease in the POS automation and banking market and 77% decrease in the lottery market. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware remained consistent during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018. 
International sales for the second quarter of 2019 decreased $0.8 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018 due primarily to a 27% decrease in sales in the international casino and gaming market. 
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s. We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 to McDonald’s to be lower in 2019 compared to 2018. 
The decrease in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was due largely to lower sales of our off-premise gaming printers. During 2018 we had a large sale to an OEM which did not reoccur in 2019. We do not expect further large sales to this domestic OEM during the remainder of 2019. This decrease was partially offset by a slight increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018. Additionally, we had slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018. We did not complete any new installations of our EPICENTRAL™ software systems in the second quarter of 2019 or 2018. Sales of EPICENTRAL™ are project based, and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
General and administrative expenses primarily include salaries, incentive compensation, and other payroll related expenses for our executive, accounting, human resources and information technology staff, expenses for our corporate headquarters, professional and legal expenses, telecommunication expenses, and other expenses related to being a publicly-traded company. General and administrative expenses increased $80 thousand, or 4%, for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 due primarily to higher professional and legal expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower recruiting expense incurred during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018. We expect general and administrative expense to be higher in 2019 compared to 2018 due to additional investment to support restaurant solutions. 
Other, net. We recorded other expense of $142 thousand in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $97 thousand in the second quarter of 2018 due to higher foreign exchange losses recorded by our U.K. entity in the second quarter of 2019. Going forward, we may continue to experience more foreign exchange gains or losses depending on the level of sales to Europe through our U.K. subsidiary and the change in exchange rates of the Euro and Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar. 
Net sales for the first half of 2019 decreased $4.1 million, or 15%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased by 19% to approximately 57,000 units in the first six months of 2019 driven by decreases across all our markets, including, decreases in unit volume of 14% and 27% from the casino and gaming market and POS automation and banking market, respectively, and, to a lesser extent, a 35% decrease in the lottery market. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 2% during the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018. 
International sales decreased $300 thousand, or 5%, primarily driven by an 11% decrease of international casino and gaming sales. This decrease was partially offset by a 55% increase from our international TSG market in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018. 
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking sales in the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased during the first half of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. 
International POS automation and banking sales decreased due to lower sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to our Canadian distributor for McDonald’s during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018. 
The decrease in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products for the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was due primarily to a 94% decrease in domestic sales of our off-premise gaming printers to an OEM, which we do not expect to reoccur in 2019. Domestic casino and gaming sales also decreased, although to a lesser extent, due to a 3% decrease in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers driven primarily by industry-wide weakness and a 62% decrease in domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales, as we had no new installations during the first half of 2019 compared to one new installation during the same period for 2018. 
The decrease in international sales in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was due primarily to a 30% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia. Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
Gross profit decreased $1.1 million, or 8% in the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 due to a 15% decline in sales during the first half of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in gross profit was partially offset by a 390 basis point increase in gross margin during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018. The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology-driven solutions, as well as lower sales of POS printers and lottery printers, which carry lower margins than our other products. 
General and administrative expenses increased $158 thousand, or 4%, in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 due primarily to higher professional and legal expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower recruiting expense incurred during the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018. 
Other, net. We recorded other expense of $52 thousand in the first six months of 2019 compared to $87 thousand in the first six months of 2018 due to lower foreign exchange losses recorded by our U.K. entity in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018. 


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


part2.txt
 Item 1.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      
In 2016, the United Kingdom voted to depart from the European Union, known as Brexit and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U. and began to negotiate the terms of the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. upon exit. We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U. legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U. The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear. The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors, including the final results of the Brexit negotiations. We do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations as 15% and 10% of our total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, are attributable to our U.K. operations. However, we cannot predict the direction Brexit-related matters may take or the impact on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


