item1.txt
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities". 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 846 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $673 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2018. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $587 thousand, or $0.08 per share.  
As of March 31, 2018, we had $104 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods. We expect $28 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2018 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations. 
We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision reported as "Deferred tax assets" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of March 31, 2018, we have $20 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain. 
ASU No. 2014-09," Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein. We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach. The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and any cumulative effective of the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption. 
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties). A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time. The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled. We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine. EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component. EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality. The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer. 
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation. The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services. In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price. To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach. 
Except for the changes below, we have consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect. The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the first quarter consolidated income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018. 


item2.txt
TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, mobile and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, Printrex® and Responder® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products. Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
International sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.4 million, or 41%, from the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in sales in the international lottery market and to a lesser extent a 14% decrease in the international casino and gaming market.  
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a 27% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's slowed compared to the record pace experienced in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. We expect sales to McDonald's to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as McDonald's completes the implementation of initiatives that use the Ithaca 9000, which began in 2015. Domestic sales also declined, although to a lesser extent, due to a 73% decrease in sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we continue to deemphasize these products. We expect sales of these legacy products to continue to decline during 2018, as we have shifted our sales focus to our newer products. 
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due largely to a 19% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs. Additionally, domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales increased 233% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we completed one new installation in 2018 compared to no installations completed during the first quarter of 2017. Sales of EPICENTRALTM are project based and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
International casino and gaming product sales decreased in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due to a 32% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia. Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. International sales of our thermal casino printers increased 5% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to increase in 2018 as we benefit from the transition away from our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and begin to sell directly to our slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe. 
The decrease in international lottery sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was due to a sale of lottery printers to IGT for the Canadian lottery in the first quarter of 2017 and no comparable sale occurring in the first quarter of 2018. 
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 resulted from 107% higher domestic sales in the oil and gas market. This increase was partially offset by lower sales in the international oil and gas market and lower sales of both domestic and international medical and mobile printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. We expect Printrex sales for the full year of 2018 to be higher than 2017, as we expect a continued modest recovery in the oil and gas market to more than offset lower expected sales of medical and mobile printers as we shift our focus to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solution and casino and gaming products. 
Gross profit is measured as revenue less cost of sales, which includes primarily the cost of all raw materials and component parts, direct labor, manufacturing overhead expenses, cost of finished products purchased directly from our contract manufacturers and expenses associated with installations of our EPICENTRALTM print system. In the first quarter of 2018, gross profit decreased $231 thousand, or 4%, compared to the same period in 2017 due to 13% lower sales, somewhat offset by higher gross margin. Although gross profit decreased, our gross margin increased 440 basis points, from 47.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 43.5% in the first quarter of 2017. The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology driven solutions, as well as lower sales of the lottery and POS printers, which carry lower margins than our other products. 
General and administrative expenses primarily include salaries and payroll related expenses for our executive, accounting, human resource and information technology staff, expenses for our corporate headquarters, professional and legal expenses, telecommunication expenses, and other expenses related to being a publicly-traded company. General and administrative expenses increased $200 thousand, or 10%, in first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due primarily to higher severance and incentive compensation expense incurred in the 2018 period. We expect general and administrative expenses in 2018 to be higher than 2017 due to increased recruiting expenses as we continue to expand our restaurant solutions sales and engineering staff and complete the planned expansion of sales staff for our European casino and gaming market. 
Other, net. We recorded other income of $10 thousand in the first quarter of 2018 compared to other expense of $6 thousand in the first quarter of 2017. The change was due to foreign currency transaction exchange gains recorded in 2018 compared to foreign currency transaction losses recorded in the 2017 period. 
In September 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program, with an initial quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share, subject to the Board's approval each quarter. Our Board of Directors declared an increase to the quarterly cash dividend from $0.06 to $0.07 per share in May 2013, from $0.07 to $0.08 per share in May 2014, and from $0.08 to $0.09 per share in May 2017. Dividends declared and paid on our common stock totaled $673 thousand, or $0.09 per share, and $587 thousand, or $0.08 per share, in the first quarter of 2018 and first quarter of 2017, respectively. We expect to pay approximately $2.7 million in cash dividends to our common shareholders during 2018. 
On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program (the "2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). Under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $5 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market at prevailing market prices based on market conditions, share price and other factors. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program expires on December 31, 2019, if we do not discontinue it prior to such time. We use the cost method to account for treasury stock purchases, under which the price paid for the stock is charged to the treasury stock account. Repurchases of our common stock are accounted for as of the settlement date. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 122,780 shares of our common stock for approximately $1.6 million at an average price per share of $12.72. 
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our expected cash flows generated from operating activities and borrowings available under our TD Bank Credit Facility will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital needs, finance our capital expenditures and dividend payments and meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next twelve months. 
The disclosure of payments we have committed to make under our contractual obligations is set forth under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.  
There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations outside the ordinary course of business since December 31, 2017. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 


part2.txt
 Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS     
Item 6.  EXHIBITS 


