item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature. The December 31, 2017 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are included in "Interest and other income (expense)" in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 732 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
ASU No. 2014-09," Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein. This ASU is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies in revenue requirements; providing a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improving comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and providing more useful information to users of financial statements through improved revenue disclosure requirements. Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective approach or modified retrospective approach to adopt the amended guidance. We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach. The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption. 
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties). A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time. The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled. We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine. EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component. EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality. The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer. 
Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment. For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit. The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over-time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. 
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation. The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services. In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price. To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach. 


item2.txt
TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products. Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
The increase in international sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was due to a 366% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers and a 153% increase in sales of our off-premise gaming printers in Europe, Australia and Asia. These increases were due to the early success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017. We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to continue to increase in the second half of 2018, as we benefit from the transition to selling directly to slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe. 
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the second quarter of 2018 compared to second quarter of 2017 resulted from a 84% increase in domestic and international sales of our oil and gas printers. This increase was partially offset by 76% lower sales of our medical and mobile printers in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017. We expect Printrex sales for the full year of 2018 to be higher than 2017, as we expect a continued modest recovery in the global oil and gas industry to more than offset lower expected sales of medical and mobile printers as we shift our focus to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products. 
Internationally, TSG revenue increased due to a 98% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017. 
General and administrative expenses primarily include salaries, incentive compensation, and other payroll related expenses for our executive, accounting, human resource and information technology staff, expenses for our corporate headquarters, professional and legal expenses, telecommunication expenses, and other expenses related to being a publicly-traded company. General and administrative expenses increased $41 thousand, or 2%, in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 due primarily to higher incentive compensation expenses and legal expenses incurred during 2018. We expect general and administrative expenses in 2018 to be higher than 2017 due to increased recruiting expenses related to the expansion our restaurant solutions sales staff, sales staff for our European casino and gaming market, and engineering staff. 
Our operating income increased $312 thousand, or 24%, in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017, and our operating margin increased to 11% of net sales largely due to higher gross profit resulting from an 8% increase in sales, as well as proportionately lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year period. 
Interest expense. We recorded net interest expense of $6 thousand in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $8 thousand in the second quarter of 2017. We do not expect significant changes in net interest expense for the remainder of 2018. 
Net sales for the first half of 2018 decreased $599 thousand, or 2%, from the same period in 2017. Printer sales volume decreased by 12% to approximately 70,000 units in the first half of 2018 driven primarily by an 81% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 10% decrease in the POS automation and banking market. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales volume of 38% in the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 32% increase in unit volume from the restaurant solutions market. Although unit volume decreased in the first six months of 2018 primarily due to the decreased volume of lottery printers sold during the first half of 2018, which carry lower prices than our other products, the average selling price of our printers increased 11% during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017. 
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily driven by increased sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal during the first half of 2018 and the initial shipments of the AccuDate XL to two large corporate customers in support of a large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal. 
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily driven by a 72% decrease in sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers during the first half of 2018 as we continue to deemphasize these products. Sales also decreased during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 due to a 7% decline in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer due to lower sales to McDonald's in the first quarter of 2018, but which subsequently rebounded to prior year, near-record levels in the second quarter of 2018. 
International sales increased due to higher sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to our Canadian distributor for McDonald's during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017. 
The increase in international sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was due to a 118% increase of thermal casino printer sales and, to a lesser extent, a 13% increase in international sales of off-premise gaming printers. These increases were due to the early success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers in Europe. 
The decrease in international lottery sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was due to a sale of lottery printers to IGT for the Canadian lottery in the first half of 2017 and no comparable sale occurring in the first half of 2018. 
The increase in domestic Printrex sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 resulted from higher domestic sales in the oil and gas market due to a continued recovery in the oil and gas market. This increase was partially offset by lower sales of domestic medical and mobile printers in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 as we shift our focus away from the medical and mobile markets to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products. 
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG in the first half of 2018 as compared to the first half of 2017 was due primarily to decreased replacement part sales, service revenue and non-Printrex consumable product sales. Replacement part sales decreased 6% due to lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT. Service revenue declined 10% in the first half of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to paper testing sales that occurred in the 2017 period but did not repeat in the 2018 period. Non-Printrex consumables declined 6% due to lower sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers, as we continue to deemphasize our sales of this commoditized consumable product and expect to exit the banking market at the end of 2018. The decrease in Non-Printrex consumables was partially offset by AccuDate label sales which more than quadrupled in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. 
Gross profit increased $330 thousand, or 3%, due primarily to a more favorable sales mix in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 as gross margin increased 220 basis points to 47.6% in the first half of 2018 compared to 45.4% in the same period 2017. The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology driven solutions, as well as lower sales volume of lottery and POS printers, which carry lower margins than our other products. 
Our operating income decreased by $248 thousand, or 9%, during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 primarily due to a 2% decrease in sales and a 6% increase in operating expenses, somewhat offset by a 220 basis point increase in gross margin in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017. 
  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $188 thousand, or 5%, due primarily to the payment of 2017 annual bonuses in March 2018, partially offset by increased customer payments.     


part2.txt
 Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


