item1.txt
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of September 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months. 
We maintain a credit facility (the “TD Bank Credit Facility”) with TD Bank N.A. (“TD Bank”), which provides for a $20 million revolving credit line. The TD Bank Credit Facility imposes certain quarterly financial covenants on us and restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the creation of other liens. We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019. On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF. Following the waiver, we had borrowings available under the TD Bank Credit Facility of $20 million. 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period, as the inclusion of these stock awards in the computation of diluted earnings would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 326 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 462 thousand and 149 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $672 thousand, which was paid on September 16, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on August 20, 2019. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $665 thousand, or $0.09 per share. Dividends declared and paid totaled $2.0 million, or $0.27 per share for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing. If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating. 
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption. We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019. Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs. We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases. We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases. The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings. 
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives. Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend. The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 


item2.txt
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. In March 2019, we launched a new line of products for the restaurant solutions market, the BOHA! branded suite of cloud-based applications and companion hardware solutions. The new BOHA! products are an all-in-one solution to help restaurants and food service operators of any size automate back-of-house operations. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers. Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
In June 2019, TransAct announced an agreement with a large, international foodservice brand that includes the deployment of BOHA! hardware and software across an initial 1,000 locations that will roll out by the end of 2019. Based on additional expansions of this customer’s stores and a successful roll out of BOHA!, the potential for additional deployments of BOHA! hardware and software could include 2,000 to 3,000 more locations over the next two to three years. 
In September 2019, TransAct announced a new agreement with a regional foodservice operator to deploy the BOHA! Terminal and one of the Company’s BOHA! SaaS-based apps across 45 locations in the U.S. TransAct expects approximately 30 customer locations to go live with the BOHA! Terminal, the BOHA! Labeling SaaS-based app and TransAct Enterprise Management System (TEMS) over the next 12 months, with an additional 15 locations to follow over time. This new BOHA! customer will also purchase TransAct labels, which are specifically designed to work with the thermal printers featured in the BOHA! Terminal. 
Net sales for the third quarter of 2019 decreased $4.2 million, or 26%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 37% to approximately 27,000 units for the third quarter of 2019 driven primarily by a 39% decrease in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, an 88% decrease in the lottery market and 23% decrease in the POS automation and banking market. These decreases were partially offset by a 21% increase in terminal and hardware volume sales in our restaurant solutions market. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 3% during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 due primarily to a lower level of lottery printer sales and POS automation and banking printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products. 
The increase in restaurant solutions sales in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was driven primarily by sales of our BOHA! software, labels and other recurring revenue. Sales of BOHA! software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 267%, including an over 250% increase in label sales and a ten-fold increase in software sales (though off of a low base in the third quarter of 2018) in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. On a unit basis, however, Hardware sales increased by 21%, as we shipped our first BOHA! solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market. We consciously decided to lower the average selling price on our BOHA! terminals to encourage customers to adopt our total BOHA! solution, which includes hardware as well as recurring software subscription revenue, service and label sales. 
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s. We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to McDonald’s to be lower for the full year 2019 compared to the full year 2018. 
The decrease in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to a 50% decline in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a large order of replacement printers from a domestic casino operator during the third quarter of 2018 that did not reoccur in the third quarter of 2019, as well as decreased sales to our OEMs. Additionally, we experienced a decrease in domestic sales of an off-premise gaming printer to an OEM, which we do not expect to reoccur in 2019. These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. We did not complete any new installations of our EPICENTRAL™ software systems in the third quarter of 2019 or 2018. Sales of EPICENTRAL™ are project based, and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
The decrease in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was due to a 20% decrease in sales of our thermal casino printers due primarily to lower sales to a large OEM in Europe. The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia. 
Interest. We recorded no net interest income or expense in the third quarter of 2019 compared to $7 thousand of net interest expense in the third quarter of 2018. We expect that net interest expense will be slightly lower in the full year 2019 compared to the full year 2018, as interest income earned on the note receivable will largely offset interest expense incurred on unused borrowings under our revolving credit line. 
Other, net. We recorded other expense of $71 thousand in the third quarter of 2019 compared to $50 thousand in the third quarter of 2018 due to higher foreign exchange losses recorded by our U.K. entity in the third quarter of 2019. Going forward, we may continue to experience more foreign exchange gains or losses depending on the level of sales to Europe through our U.K. subsidiary and the change in exchange rates of the Euro and Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar. 
Net sales for the first nine months of 2019 decreased $8.2 million, or 19%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased by 26% to approximately 83,000 units in the first nine months of 2019 driven by decreases across all our markets. These volume decreases were primarily due to a 24% decrease in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 26% and 54% unit decrease in our POS automation and banking market and lottery market, respectively. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 2% during the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018. 
International sales decreased $0.6 million, or 8%, primarily driven by an 11% decrease of international casino and gaming sales. This decrease was partially offset by a 24% increase from our international TSG market and a 41% increase from our international restaurant solutions market during the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018. 
Restaurant solutions. Sales of our worldwide restaurant solutions products for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands, except percentages). Note that we have reclassified sales of labels and other recurring revenue items, which includes extended warranty and service contracts, and technical support services previously included in TSG to Restaurant Solutions for all periods presented in this Report. 
The increase in restaurant solutions terminal sales in the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 was driven by sales of our BOHA! software, labels and other recurring revenue. Sales of BOHA! software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis, labels and other recurring revenue increased by 291%, including a 241% increase in label sales and a twenty-fold increase in software sales (though off a low base in the first nine months of 2018). Hardware sales declined by 16% on lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor and lower sales of our BOHA! terminal to three large corporate customers, in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal in the first nine months of last year that did not reoccur in 2019. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our BOHA! terminal to a convenience store supplier and increased sales of our AccuDate Pro terminal. 
The decrease in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products for the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 was due primarily to a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer, driven primarily by a large order from a domestic casino operator for replacement printers during 2018 that did not reoccur in 2019, as well as lower sales to our domestic OEMs. Additionally, domestic sales of our off-premise gaming printers decreased 95% during the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 due to sales to an OEM in the 2018 period that we do not expect to reoccur in 2019. Domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales decreased 38%, as we had no new installations during the first nine months of 2019 compared to one new installation during the same period for 2018. 
The decrease in international sales in the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 was due to a 9% decline in international sales of our thermal casino printer due to lower European sales and a 19% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia. Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. 
At the time that (i) our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 was filed on March 18, 2019, (ii) our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 was filed on May 10, 2019, and (iii) our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 was filed on August 8, 2019, our management, including our CEO and CFO, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2018, March 31, 2019, and June 30, 2019, respectively. Subsequently, our management, including our CEO and CFO, reevaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2018, March 31, 2019, and June 30, 2019, and continue to not be effective as of September 30, 2019 due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as described below. 
 ●  To address the Access Control Weakness, we are utilizing the services of an Oracle consulting firm and an accounting firm unrelated to PwC, to assist us in analyzing and reviewing Oracle access for all users. Upon completion of this analysis, we plan to modify the designated Oracle responsibilities for each employee for which a conflict has been identified to remove any Oracle transactional responsibilities that we believe are conflicting and reassign those responsibilities to a different employee to ensure proper segregation of duties. In addition, we plan to enhance and implement provisioning and user certification controls to ensure we maintain the appropriate segregation of duties within Oracle following the analysis.     


part2.txt
The United Kingdom’s anticipated withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, including our U.K. subsidiary. 
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U. The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties. We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U. legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U. The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear. The actual effects of Brexit, which may be negative for our business, will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, the final results of the Brexit negotiations and whether the U.K. departs the E.U. with or without a withdrawal agreement. As of September 30, 2019, we do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as only 10% of our total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are attributable to our U.K. operations. However, we cannot predict the direction or outcome Brexit-related matters and negotiations may take, or the impact that Brexit may have on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary. 


