item1.txt
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 382 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 149 thousand and 404 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. ASU 2016-02 supersedes the previous leases standard, ASC 840, Leases, and is effective for public entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does have leases for equipment and real property which exceed 12 months and we are in the process of finalizing our review of our lease agreements and evaluating the impact of Topic 842. The Company intends to elect the package of practical expedients and currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption of Topic 842. While we expect to record material right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities upon adoption of Topic 482, we do not expect adoption of the guidance will result in a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows.  
ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers” and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein. This ASU is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies in revenue requirements; providing a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improving comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and providing more useful information to users of financial statements through improved revenue disclosure requirements. Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective approach or modified retrospective approach to adopt the amended guidance. We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach. The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption. 
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties). A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the “expected value” method or the “most likely amount” method depending on the nature of the variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company’s judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time. The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled. We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine. EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component. EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality. The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer. 


item2.txt
TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”) is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality date code, grab-and-go and nutritional labels for food items and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products. Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
Net sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased $314 thousand, or 2%, from the same period in 2017. Printer and terminal sales volume increased 12% to approximately 42 thousand units for the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a 73% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market. These increases were partially offset by a 74% decline in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 41% decline in unit volume from the restaurant solutions market. The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products. 
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal due to lower sales to McDonald's. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our newer AccuDate XL2e terminal to three large corporate customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal. Shipments of AccuDate XL2e terminals exceeded sales of AccuDate 9700 terminals for the second consecutive quarter in the third quarter of 2018. We expect full year 2018 sales of our restaurant solutions terminals to be relatively consistent with full year 2017 sales. 
The increase in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue from the third quarter of 2017 was driven by a 22% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017. We expect this level of sales to McDonald’s to decrease during the fourth quarter of 2018. This increase was partially offset by 81% lower domestic sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers for the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017. We expect sales of these legacy products to continue to decline during the remainder of 2018, as we expect to exit the banking market at the end of 2018 and have shifted our focus to our newer products. 
The increase in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was due to a 76% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers. These increases were due to the success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and included a large non-recurring order to an international OEM that we don’t expect to reoccur in the fourth quarter of 2018. 
While we expect casino and gaming sales to increase in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, we do not expect domestic and international sales of our thermal casino printers to continue at the level experienced during the third quarter of 2018 for the remainder of 2018, as the third quarter results included two large orders that we do not expect to reoccur in 2018. 
Our sales to IGT are directly dependent on the timing and number of new and upgraded lottery terminal installations that IGT performs, and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. However, our lottery market sales are not indicative of IGT’s overall business or revenue. We expect lottery printer sales to be lower for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as we have shifted our focus away from the lottery market to our higher-value, technology enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products. 
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the third quarter of 2018 compared to third quarter of 2017 resulted from a 67% increase in domestic and international sales of our oil and gas printers. This increase was partially offset by 97% lower domestic and international sales of our medical and mobile printers in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017. We expect Printrex sales for the full year of 2018 to be higher than 2017, as we expect a continued modest recovery in the global oil and gas industry to more than offset lower expected sales of medical and mobile printers as we shift our focus to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products. 
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to decreased replacement part sales and non-Printrex consumable product sales. Replacement part sales decreased 44% due to lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT. Non-Printrex consumables declined 15% due to lower sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers, as we continue to deemphasize our sales of this commoditized consumable product and expect to exit the banking market at the end of 2018. The decreases were partially offset by increased AccuDate label sales which quadrupled during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017. Based on our backlog of orders and contractual commitments for replacement parts for our installed base of lottery printers, we expect TSG sales to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the unusually high level of spare parts sales, largely from lottery printer spare part sales to IGT, during 2017. 
Selling and marketing expenses primarily include salaries and payroll related expenses for our sales and marketing staff, sales commissions, travel expenses, expenses associated with the lease of sales offices, advertising, trade show expenses, e-commerce and other promotional marketing expenses. Such expenses decreased by $97 thousand, or 5%, in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of sales commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ. These decreases were somewhat offset by the hiring of additional sales staff in the U.K. to support our new direct selling model for the casino and gaming market in Europe. We expect selling and marketing expenses in 2018 to be relatively consistent with 2017, as increased costs related to the build-out of our internal sales infrastructure in Europe during 2018 will be offset by savings from the retirement of our former EVP, Sales and Marketing and the elimination of sales commissions to our former gaming international distributor. 
General and administrative expenses primarily include salaries, incentive compensation, and other payroll related expenses for our executive, accounting, human resource and information technology staff, expenses for our corporate headquarters, professional and legal expenses, telecommunication expenses, and other expenses related to being a publicly-traded company. General and administrative expenses remained consistent during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due to higher legal expenses being mostly offset by lower incentive compensation expenses incurred during 2018. We expect general and administrative expenses to be higher in 2018 than 2017 due to recruiting expenses related to the expansion of our restaurant solutions sales staff, sales staff for our European casino and gaming market, and engineering staff. 
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was driven by increased sales of our AccuDate XL2e to three large corporate customers in support of a large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal. This increase was partially offset by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to McDonald’s and our former U.S. distributor. 
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was primarily driven by a 74% decrease in sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers as we continue to deemphasize these products. These decreases were partially offset by a slight increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printers of 1% during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, as sales rebounded to prior year, near-record levels during the second and third quarters of 2018. 
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due primarily to a 35% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs and a large order from a domestic casino operator for replacement printers in the third quarter of 2018. Domestic sales also increased due to a significant sale of our off-premise gaming printers to an OEM based in the U.S. These increases were partially offset by lower domestic sales of EPICENTRAL™ software which decreased 41% as we completed one new installation during the first nine months of 2018 compared to two new installations completed in the first nine months of 2017. Sales of EPICENTRAL™ are project based, and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
The increase in international sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was due to a 98% increase of thermal casino printer sales and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in international sales of off-premise gaming printers. These increases were due to the success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers in Europe and included a large order to an international OEM in the third quarter of 2018. 
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts, non-Printrex consumable products and service revenue. Replacement part sales decreased 24% due to lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT. Non-Printrex consumables sales declined 13% due to lower sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers, as we continue to deemphasize our sales of this commoditized consumable product and expect to exit the banking market at the end of 2018. Service revenue declined 10% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to paper testing sales that occurred in the 2017 period but did not repeat in the 2018 period. These decreases were partially offset by increased AccuDate label sales which more than quadrupled in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017. 
Internationally, TSG revenue increased primarily due to a 124% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, as sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers have increased upon the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers. 
Selling and marketing expenses decreased $151 thousand, or 3%, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of sales commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ. These decreases were partially offset by the hiring of additional sales staff to replace our former distributor with a direct selling team for our casino and gaming sales in Europe.  
In 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program which is subject to the Board’s approval each quarter. Our Board of Directors declared an increase to the quarterly cash dividend from $0.06 to $0.07 per share in May 2013, from $0.07 to $0.08 per share in May 2014, and from $0.08 to $0.09 per share in May 2017. Dividends declared and paid on our common stock totaled $665 thousand, or $0.09 per share in the third quarter of 2018 and $661 thousand in the third quarter of 2017. We expect to pay approximately $2.7 million in cash dividends to our common shareholders during the full year 2018. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $2.0 million, or $0.27 per share and $1.9 million, or $0.26 per share, respectively. 


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


part2.txt
Item 6.  EXHIBITS 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


