item1.txt
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months. 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were 540 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $668 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $673 thousand, or $0.09 per share. 
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing. If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating. 
We have elected certain of the practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption. We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019. Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs. We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases. We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases. The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings. 
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives. Our leases have remaining lease terms of one to eight years, some of which include options to extend. The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
We recorded an income tax provision for the first quarter of 2019 of $115 thousand at an effective tax rate of 13.4%, compared to an income tax provision during the first quarter of 2018 of $178 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.7%. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”). The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released. 


item2.txt
TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers. Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 
Net sales for the first quarter of 2019 decreased $0.7 million, or 6%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 11% to approximately 28,000 units driven primarily by a 27% decrease in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market and a 5% decrease in unit volume in the casino and gaming market. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 4% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due primarily to lower POS automation and banking sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.  
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our AccuDate XL2e terminal, which has since been rebranded to the BOHA! terminal. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2019, we recognized our first sales of BOHA! software on a SaaS subscription basis. We expect sales of our restaurant solutions products to increase in 2019 compared to 2018 following the launch of our new BOHA! solution.  
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 to McDonald’s to decrease in 2019 compared to 2018. 
International casino and gaming product sales increased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to a 77% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers largely to customers in Asia. This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia. Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 
The increase in sales of Printrex printers for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 resulted from higher domestic and international sales in the oil and gas market. We expect total Printrex sales to increase slightly for 2019 compared to 2018, as we expect to benefit from a continued modest recovery in the oil and gas industry.  
The increase in domestic revenue from TSG for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in label sales and increased service revenue related to our restaurant solutions products. Sales of our restaurant solutions labels were five times higher on a growing installed base of AccuDate and BOHA! terminals. Service revenue also increased 24% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Additionally, we had a 18% increase in sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers. We do not expect this trend to continue for HP inkjet cartridges as we exited the banking market at the end of 2018. These increases were offset by a 31% decrease in sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT. Based on our backlog of orders and contractual commitments for replacement parts, primarily from IGT, for our installed base of lottery printers, we expect TSG sales to decrease in 2019 compared to 2018. 
Gross profit is measured as revenue less cost of sales, which includes primarily the cost of all raw materials and component parts, direct labor, manufacturing overhead expenses, cost of finished products purchased directly from our contract manufacturers and expenses associated with installations of our EPICENTRALTM print system. For the first quarter of 2019, gross profit increased $224 thousand, or 4%, despite a sales decrease of 6% for the first quarter in 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Our gross margin increased 480 basis points, increasing to 52.7% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to 47.9% for the first quarter of 2018. The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology driven solutions, as well as lower sales of POS printers, which carry lower margins than our other products. 
Interest. We recorded net interest expense of $6 thousand for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $8 thousand for the first quarter of 2018. We do not expect significant changes in net interest expense for the full year 2019. 
Other, net. We recorded other income of $90 thousand for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $10 thousand for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in other income was due to higher foreign currency exchange gains recorded by our U.K. subsidiary for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Going forward, we may continue to experience more foreign exchange gains or losses depending on the level of sales to Europe through our U.K. subsidiary and the change in exchange rates of the Euro and Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar. 
For the first three months of 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased $2.7 million, or 59%, from December 31, 2018. We ended the first quarter of 2019 with $1.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.5 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding. 
  ●  Accounts payable decreased $0.7 million, or 19%, due primarily to higher inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2018.      
In 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program which is subject to the Board’s approval each quarter. Our Board of Directors declared an increase to the quarterly cash dividend from $0.06 to $0.07 per share in May 2013, from $0.07 to $0.08 per share in May 2014, and from $0.08 to $0.09 per share in May 2017. Dividends declared and paid on our common stock totaled $0.7 million or $0.09 per share in the first quarter of both 2019 and 2018. On April 30, 2019 our Board of Directors approved the second quarter 2019 dividend in the amount of $0.09 per share payable on or about June 14, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 20, 2019. We expect to pay approximately $2.7 million in cash dividends to our common shareholders during 2019. 
On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”). Under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $5 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market at prevailing market prices based on market conditions, share price and other factors. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program expires on December 31, 2019, if we do not discontinue the repurchase program prior to such time. We use the cost method to account for treasury stock purchases, under which the price paid for the stock is charged to the treasury stock account. Repurchases of our common stock are accounted for as of the settlement date. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased no shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 122,780 shares of our common stock for approximately $1.6 million at an average price per share of $12.72.  
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our expected cash flows generated from operating activities and borrowings available under our TD Bank Credit Facility will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital needs, finance our capital expenditures and additions to capitalized software, and dividend payments, and meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next twelve months. 


item4.txt
 Item 5.  OTHER INFORMATION        
 Item 6.  EXHIBITS       


