fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, “Leases (“Topic 842”), as provided below.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of future payments.
Operating lease ROU assets include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred when appropriate.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 and its subsequent amendments supersede previous guidance related to accounting for leases and are intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
During fiscal 2019, $3.0 million was drawn on the revolving credit facility, of which $1.5 million was repaid.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.75% and $19,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the period ended May 4, 2019.
As of May 4, 2019, there is $8.5 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
Both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S.


item2.txt
Item 2.
This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $14.2 million, a 17.6% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $12.1 million.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


