The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the six months ended July 28, 2018.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The slight decrease in the deferred revenue at July 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $403,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which is currently estimated to be approximately 10 years.
There has been no change in the Company’s accounting for these contracts as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.Item 2.
Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended July 29, 2017 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.8 million, representing a 23.0% increase compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $27.5 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $13.8 million, a 34.0% increase over the previous year’s second quarter and represents 41% of AstroNova’s second quarter’s revenue.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.9 million, a 9.8% increase over the prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $16.3 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $13.4 million, a 30.6% increase compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $10.3 million.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $16 thousand of other income in the prior year second quarter.Item 1A.