See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.Three Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue.
Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $18.1 million, a 1.1% increase over prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $17.9 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the second quarter of the prior year.
Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million.Item 1A.