fls.txt



item1.txt
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
There has been no change in the Company’s accounting for these contracts as a result of the adoption ASC Topic 606.
This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 8 years.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At April 28, 2018, the current portion of the royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.5 million and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $11.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred $0.5 million in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of goods sold in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended April 28, 2018.
A total of $0.9 million of excess royalty is payable at April 28, 2018 and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island.


item2.txt
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million.
Other expense in the first quarter of the fiscal 2019 was $0.3 million compared to $48 thousand in the prior year first quarter.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 7.0% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $20.0 million compared to $18.6 million in the same period of the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


