fls.txt



item1.txt
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, which includes identifying contracts with customers, identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and recognizing revenue when the entity satisfies each performance obligation.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
The slight increase in the deferred revenue at October 27, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $610,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
There has been no change in the Company’s accounting for these contracts as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred an additional $150,000 in incremental direct costs which were deferred.
The amortization of incremental direct costs was $50,000 and $65,000 for the three and nine months periods ended October 27, 2018.
The balance of the deferred incremental direct contract costs net of accumulated amortization at October 27, 2018 is $916,000 and is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
Current year third quarter gross profit was $13.9 million, a 17.9% increase compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $11.8 million.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
Net income was 4.1% of revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 4.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $99.5 million, representing a 23.3% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $80.7 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $60.8 million, an increase of 19.2% from the prior year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


