The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.
On December 20, 2018, the Company received sale proceeds of $45,500 and concurrently leased-back its former manufacturing site in Santa Clara, California, under a short-term arrangement, to raze the buildings.
Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows.This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide an understanding of Vishay's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from period to period.
We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.
In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA.
We continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million in 2019.
The new credit facility increases the aggregate commitment of revolving loans from $640 million to $750 million; provides us with the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt; reduces the undrawn commitment fee while maintaining the same borrowing rates; and provides greater operating flexibility, including with respect to intercompany funding and other transactions, to enable us to continue to streamline our complex subsidiary structure.
We repatriated approximately $73.6 million and $115.2 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $20.5 million and $18.3 million during the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019, respectively.
Substantially all of these amounts are being used to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility, to pay the U.S. transition tax, and to fund capital expansion projects.
In the third fiscal quarter of 2019, we announced global cost reduction and management rejuvenation programs as part of our continuous efforts to improve efficiency and operating performance.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
This decrease has negatively impacted almost all key financial metrics, including net revenues.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $628.3 million, compared to $685.2 million and $781.0 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.Item 4.