fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).


item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
The significant accounting policies disclosed below reflect the impact of our adoption of ASC 606.
As discussed above, our contracts are often subsequently modified to include changes in specifications, requirements or price.
Depending on the nature of the modification, we consider whether to account for the modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract.
Often, the deliverables in our contract modifications are not distinct from the existing contract due to the significant integration and interrelated tasks provided in the context of the contract.
We estimate variable consideration primarily using the most likely amount method.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices.
We recognize revenue for each performance obligation when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation to the customer.
The transfer of control can occur over time or at a point in time.
Revenue for our development and production contracts is recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of the performance obligation based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
Because these methods closely reflect the value of the services transferred to the customer, we believe these methods best depict transfer of control to the customer.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
The increase in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, and in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to growth in all three businesses that comprise our Communication Systems segment, including $38 million of higher revenue from Tactical Communications, primarily due to strong readiness demand for U.S. Department of Defense tactical radios, and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications and Night Vision.
The increase in segment gross margin and the decrease in segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily reflected higher volume and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Non-operating income primarily reflects adjustments to adopt ASU 2017-07, which changed the presentation of components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs other than the service cost component in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


