fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.


item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures).
•Initiating the process of reviewing the additional disclosure requirements of this standard and the potential impact on our accounting systems and internal control structure.
approach, effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2019.
The full retrospective approach would require us to apply this standard to each subsequent period presented and to recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this standard as of the beginning of our fiscal 2017 - the earliest comparative period to be presented subsequent to adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
Segment gross margin percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales, mostly offset by productivity savings.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report.
•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
•$313 million of net repayment of borrowings, including $248 million of repayment of our variable-rate term loans and $250 million of repayment of the entire outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% notes due October 1, 2016; •$20 million used in other financing activities.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.


item3.txt
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


