fls.txt
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.


item1.txt
On October 12, 2018, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Harris”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with L3 Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“L3”), and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Harris and L3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which Merger Sub would merge with and into L3, with L3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (the “L3Harris Merger”).
Shares of L3Harris common stock, which previously traded under ticker symbol “HRS” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) prior to completion of the L3Harris Merger, are traded under ticker symbol “LHX” following completion of the L3Harris Merger.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “L3Harris” as used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) mean Harris and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the L3Harris Merger) and to the combined company L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the L3Harris Merger).
The excess of the consideration transferred over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by L3Harris, without an audit, in accordance with GAAP for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
We implemented a new organizational structure effective on June 29, 2019, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also reportable segments and referred to as our business segments.
On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $346 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Through fiscal 2019, our fiscal year ended on the Friday nearest June 30.
We initially applied ASC 842 for leases existing as of June 29, 2019 and recognized $270 million of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and $289 million of lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
Equipment leases were not material at September 27, 2019 and June 29, 2019.
We also elected the package of practical expedients permitted under ASC 842 and did not reassess lease classification for existing or expired leases, whether expired or existing contracts contain a lease under the new definition of a lease or whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under ASC 842.
Finance lease liabilities are classified as other current liabilities or other long-term liabilities depending on when the obligation is due.
Our leases also include non-lease components such as real estate taxes and common-area maintenance costs.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
ESA expenses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 also included a $12 million gain on sale of a product line, offset by a $12 million non-cash cumulative adjustment to lease expense.
See Note R — Non-Operating Income and Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations.
The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma revenue for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Space and Airborne Systems segment, reflecting growth in the Avionics and Space businesses, and higher revenue in our Integrated Mission Systems and Communication Systems segments.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


