You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
 On August 21, 2018 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation ("Blue Microphones") for a total consideration of $134.9 million in cash (the "Blue Microphones Acquisition"), which includes a working capital adjustment and repayment of a debt on behalf of Blue Microphones. Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers. The Blue Microphones Acquisition is consistent with Logitech's merger and acquisition strategy and will supplement the Company's portfolio opportunities. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Blue Microphones contributed one percentage point of the net sales growth rate.
Our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 increased 9% and 12%, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, mainly due to stronger net sales in the Americas and Asia Pacific. 
Our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 8% and 24% in the Americas and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 in EMEA remained flat, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our net sales for the six months ended September 30, 2018 increased 10%, 3% and 26% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the six months ended September 30, 2018 increased 60 basis points to 36.9% from 36.3% for the six months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of a one-time tariff duty refund of approximately $7.1 million, and a one-time benefit from a legal settlement with our prior distribution center supplier in the Americas, as well as favorable exchange rates and cost reduction efforts. Those benefits were partially offset by unfavorable impact from adoption of ASC 606 and increase in spending in Customer Programs. 
Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $191.0 million, or 27.6% of net sales, compared to $168.8 million, or 26.7% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2018 were $382.5 million, or 29.4% of net sales, compared to $331.0 million, or 28.5% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily driven by $8.8 million higher advertising and 
marketing expenses to support our new product introductions, $5.2 million higher personnel-related cost due to additional headcount from business acquisition and increased performance based variable compensation, and $3.0 million from the prior year's credit for change in fair value of contingent consideration from an acquisition. The increase in operating expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily driven by $32.2 million higher personnel-related cost due to restructuring charges in the current period, increased performance based variable compensation and additional headcount from business acquisitions, $9.6 million higher advertising and marketing expenses to support our new product introduction,and $4.9 million from the prior year's credit for change in fair value of contingent consideration from an acquisition.
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
We have historically experienced higher net sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product 
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions discussed below and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition. ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. On April 1, 2018, we adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of April 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605. 
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of the impact of adoption of Topic 606.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01"). ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations. We adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for our privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values. We elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements to be adopted.
Although our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, 51% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
The increases in net sales in our Americas region for the three-month period presented above was primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Keyboards and Combos, Video Collaboration and Pointing Devices, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers and Smart Home. The increases in net sales in our Americas region for the six-month period presented above was primarily driven by the same categories. In addition, Tablets and Other Accessories and PC Webcams also contributed to the increase for the six-month period. 
The net sales in our EMEA region remained flat for the three-month period presented above. The net sales in our EMEA region increased 3% for the six-month period presented above, which was primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Tablets and Other Accessories and Video Collaboration, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers and Smart Home. 
The growth in our Asia Pacific region during both periods presented above were primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Keyboards and Combos, Video Collaboration, Pointing Devices and Mobile Speakers. 
Net sales of Pointing Devices increased 4% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The increases for both periods were primarily driven by an increase in sales for cordless mice, such as M280 Wireless Mouse, M510 Wireless Mouse, and MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse. MX Vertical Wireless Mouse introduced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 also contributed to the sales increase for both periods.
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
PC Webcams net sales increased 3% and 9% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The increases in both periods were primarily driven by increases in sales for our HD Pro Webcam C920 and 1080P Pro Stream Webcam.
Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes products which combine audio and video and other products that can connect any-sized user groups.
Net sales of Video Collaboration products increased 24% and 42% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The increases for both periods were primarily driven by an increase in sales for our Meetup video conference camera, PTZ Pro 2 group camera, and high-end business webcams.
Net sales of Mobile Speakers decreased 15% and 27% for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The decreases for both periods were primarily due to a decline in sales for our Ultimate Ears Megaboom, Boom 2, and Wonderboom mobile speakers. The decreases were partially offset by sales from the introduction of our Ultimate Ears Megaboom 3 and Boom 3 mobile speakers in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. 
Gaming net sales increased 41% and 55% for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The significant increases for both periods were primarily driven by the strong performance of the ASTRO console gaming headsets - which benefited from the growing gaming market, growth in eSports, expansions in new channels and regions, and expansion in product portfolios - as well as the continued success for our gaming mice and PC gaming headsets. The increases for the six-month period, and to a lesser extent for the three-month period, were also driven by the fact that the acquisition 
of ASTRO closed on August 11, 2017, in the middle of our fiscal year 2018 second quarter, resulting in a partial comparative period impact. 
Smart Home net sales decreased 50% and 48% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The decreases for both periods were primarily due to a decline in sales for our Harmony remotes and home video products. 
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead cost, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support, and facilities costs.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, marketing and selling expenses increased $14.4 million and $26.6 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The increases were primarily driven by higher advertising and marketing expenses to support our new products, and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount and increased performance based variable compensation. 
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs for contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, research and development expenses increased $2.9 million and $6.8 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The increases were primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount from business acquisitions and increased performance based variable compensation, and higher investment in new product developments. 
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead, information technology, and facilities costs for the infrastructure functions such as finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal functions.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. 
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names. The increases in amortization of intangible assets during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year were primarily driven by the acquisition of ASTRO in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and the acquisition of Blue Microphones in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Acquisition-related costs include legal expense, due diligence costs, and other professional costs incurred for business acquisitions. 
There was no contingent consideration for business acquisition during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in fair value of contingent consideration during the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to the agreement we reached with the sellers of Jaybird LLC, the company we acquired in April 2016. During the six months ended September 30, 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration decreased $4.9 million due to the agreement reached with the sellers of Jaybird LLC and lower-than-expected net sales of Jaybird products, partially offset by the change in the time value of money. 
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support the long-term growth opportunities. In July, 2018, our Board of Directors approved to allow additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million, of which $10.0 million was recognized during the first half of fiscal year 2019. The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges (credit), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. We expect to substantially complete this restructuring within the next six to nine months.
As of September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $425.0 million, compared to $641.9 million as of March 31, 2018. As of September 30, 2018, 62% of the cash and cash equivalents was held in Switzerland, 18% held in Hong Kong and China and 9% held in the United Kingdom. We do not expect to incur any material adverse tax impact except for what has been recognized, or be significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile.
 The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to the Blue Microphones Acquisition ("Note 2 - Business Acquisition" to the condensed consolidated financial statements), payment of cash dividends, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and the purchases of our shares, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights and net cash provided by operating activities.
As of September 30, 2018, our working capital was $438.6 million, compared to $597.4 million as of March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by higher accounts payable, higher accruals, lower cash and cash equivalents offset by higher accounts receivable, net and inventories. Our working capital was $445.5 million as of September 30, 2017. 
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.3 million as of September 30, 2018. There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply. As of September 30, 2018, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $26.3 million under these lines of credit. 
DSO for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by 20 days to 60 days, as compared to 40 days for the same period of the prior fiscal year. The adoption of Topic 606 negatively impacted our DSO for the three months ended September 30, 2018 by 18 days, mainly as a result of changes in the balance sheet presentation of certain reserve balances previously shown net within accounts receivable which are now presented as liabilities. The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities. Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the details of the adoption impact of Topic 606. Timing of sales and customer payments also drove the increase in DSO.
Certain of the our products are subject to the increased tariff duty effective September 24, 2018, which did not have material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2018 and for the period then ended. 
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we generated $97.2 million cash in operating activities. Our main sources of operating cash flows were from net income after adding back non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization, and share-based compensation expense, and from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The increases in accounts receivable, net, excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 at adoption date were primarily due to higher business volumes, timing of sales and customer payments. The increases in inventories were primarily driven by increased sales expectation for the holidays in the third quarter, and higher inventory balances to support tariff impact mitigation. We strategically invested in our inventory ahead of the recent tariff implementation. The increases in accounts payable were primarily driven by the higher inventory purchases and timing of payment. The increases in accrued and current liabilities were primarily driven by higher sales reserve liability due to higher business volumes.
Net cash used in investing activities was $153.8 million, primarily due to $133.8 million payment of the net cash purchase price for the Blue Microphones Acquisition and $18.4 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the six months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $1.2 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, mainly due to the higher amount of tooling purchases. 
Net cash used in financing activities was $151.2 million, primarily for the $114.0 million payment of cash dividend, $19.9 million in repurchases of our registered shares, and $27.4 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, partially offset by $10.0 million in proceeds received from exercises of stock options and purchase rights.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings. Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies.
In fiscal year 2019, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 110.7 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $114.0 million) out of retained earnings. In fiscal year 2018, we paid a cash dividend of CHF100.0 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $104.2 million) out of retained earnings. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares. The new program was approved by the Swiss Takeover Board in May 2017. Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years. Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise. Opportunistic purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors. As of September 30, 2018, $200.0 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program.
The annual bonus is paid in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period is negatively affected as a result. 
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030. 
As of September 30, 2018, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months. Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements. We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations. Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. 
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Logitech Europe S.A., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of certain third-party contract manufacturers' purchase obligations. As of September 30, 2018, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million, of which $1.5 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding.
