Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.
We report our results in U.S.
The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar.
Certain operations use the Swiss Franc or the local currency of the country as their functional currencies.
Accordingly, unrealized currency gains or losses resulting from the translation of net assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies to the U.S. Dollar are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity.
We transact business in over 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to operations are the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Swiss Franc, Australian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 51% of our sales were in non-U.S. denominated currencies, with 24% of our sales denominated in Euro.
As of September 30, 2018, net liabilities held in CNY totaled $7.8 million.
We enter into​ cash flow hedge​ contracts to ​protect​ against exchange rate exposure​ of ​forecasted inventory purchases.
Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
As of September 30, 2018, the notional amounts of currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $89.1 million.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases.
Deferred realized and unrealized gain and loss was not material as of September 30, 2018.
These contracts generally mature within one month.
The primary risk managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk.
The gains or losses on these currency exchange contracts are recognized in earnings based on the changes in fair value.
Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The notional amounts of currency exchange contracts outstanding as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 relating to foreign currency receivables or payables were $71.5 million and $47.2 million, respectively.
Open forward and swap contracts as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollars, Taiwan New Dollars and Australian Dollars to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates.
