You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 15% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, due to stronger net sales across all regions.
Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 13%, 7% and 28% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 30 basis points to 36.8% from 36.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 as a result of a one-time benefit of approximately 60 basis points from a legal settlement with our prior distribution center supplier in the Americas as well as favorable exchange rates and product cost savings.
Those benefits were partially offset by supply chain and logistics costs.
Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $191.5 million, or 31.5% of net sales, compared to $162.2 million, or 30.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
 Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $38.5 million, compared to $37.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing.
The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
We believe Logitech is well positioned to benefit from the PC gaming market growth.
With ASTRO Gaming, we are also strengthening our portfolio in adjacent categories, such as the console gaming market.
We have historically experienced higher net sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions discussed below and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On April 1, 2018, we adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of March 31, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01").
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.
We adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for our privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
We elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
statements and simplifies the application of the hedge accounting guidance.
We adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018 and the adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with ASC 815-20-45-1A, we have started presenting the earnings impact from forward points in the same line item that is used to present the earnings impact of the hedged item, i.e.
Cost of Goods sold, for hedging forecasted inventory purchases.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements to be adopted.
Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current period’s average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by significant shifts in currency exchange rates.
Although our financial results are reported in U.S.
Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, 49% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
The increase in net sales in our Americas region was primarily driven by growth in Gaming (including ASTRO), Video Collaboration, Tablets and Other Accessories, Video Collaboration and PC Webcams, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers and Smart Home.
The increase in net sales in our EMEA region was primarily driven by growth in Gaming (including ASTRO), Video Collaboration, Tablets and Other Accessories, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers and Smart Home.
The growth in our Asia Pacific region during the period was primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Keyboards and Combos, Video Collaboration and Pointing Devices.
Net sales of Pointing Devices increased 5% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for the three-month period was primarily driven by an increase in sales for MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse and the introduction of MX Ergo Wireless Trackball.
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes products which combine audio and video and other products that can connect small- and medium-sized user groups.
Net sales of Video Collaboration products increased 65% in the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily due to strong sales for our Meetup video conference camera, PTZ Pro 2 group camera, and high-end business webcams.
Net sales of Mobile Speakers decreased 45% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for the period was primarily due to a decline in sales for our Ultimate Ears Megaboom, Boom 2, and Wonderboom mobile speakers, partially offset by sales from the introduction of our Ultimate Ears Megablast and Blast mobile speakers in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Gaming net sales increased 75% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Smart Home net sales decreased 45% during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease was primarily due to a decline in sales for our Harmony Smart Home remotes, which grew approximately 50% a year ago, partially offset by an increase in sales for our Circle 2 wired and wireless security cameras introduced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead cost, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support, and facilities costs.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, marketing and selling expenses increased $12.2 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by $11.1 million higher personal-related costs due to increased variable compensation linked to stronger performance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and increased headcount to expand and support our advertising and marketing efforts for our new products resulting from past business acquisitions.
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs for contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, research and development expenses increased $3.9 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by $2.8 million higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount from business acquisitions and increased variable compensation linked to stronger performance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead and facilities costs for the finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal functions.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat, compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year.
Higher personnel-related costs were partially offset slightly by a reduction in our external consulting expenses.
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names.
There was no contingent consideration for business acquisition during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The change in fair value of contingent consideration for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to lower-than-expected net sales of Jaybird products, partially offset by the change in the time value of money.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support the long-term growth opportunities.
Subsequent to quarter end, our Board of Directors approved to allow additional costs under this restructuring plan with total pre-tax charges of approximately $10 million to $15 million in the current fiscal year, of which $9.9 million was recognized during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We will continue to refine the estimate based on ongoing analysis and available information and interpretations through the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, is primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions which we operate and less excess tax benefits recognized in the United States in the three months ended June 30, 2018.
In the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there was a discrete tax benefit of $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $604.1 million, compared to $641.9 million as of March 31, 2018, of which 66% is held in Switzerland, 15% is held in Hong Kong and China, 8% in is held in UK and 5% is held in Germany as of June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, our working capital was $596.7 million, compared to $597.4 million as of March 31, 2018.
Our working capital increased compared to $553.3 million as of June 30, 2017, which was primarily driven by higher cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net, partially offset by higher accounts payable and higher accruals.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $81.8 million as of June 30, 2018.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.
As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $20.9 million under these lines of credit.
The adoption of Topic 606, negatively impacted our DSO for the three months ended June 30, 2018 by 17 days, mainly as a result of changes in the balance sheet presentation of certain reserve balances previously shown net within accounts receivable which are now presented as liabilities.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
Timing of sales and customer payments also drove the increase in DSO.
DPO for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased four days, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the timing of purchases and related payments.
The increase in inventories compared with June 30, 2017 was primarily driven by higher net sales while inventory level decreased.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we generated $12.3 million cash in operating activities.
The increase in accounts receivable, net, excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 was primarily due to timing of sales and customer payments, and the increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the higher inventory purchases.
Net cash used in investing activities was $8.8 million, primarily due to $8.7 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased by $1.3 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, mainly due to the lower amount of tooling purchases and lower infrastructure expenditure.
Net cash used in financing activities was $34.0 million, primarily for $10.0 million repurchases of our registered shares, $25.1 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units partially offset by $1.1 million in proceeds received from the exercises of stock options.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, there was a $7.3 million loss of currency exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a gain of $1.1 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The loss from currency exchange effect during the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, Brazilian Real and Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar by 5%, 14% and 4%, respectively, during the period.
The gain from currency translation exchange effect during the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar by 4% during the period.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings.
In fiscal year 2018, we paid a cash dividend of CHF100.0 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $104.2 million) out of retained earnings.
During fiscal year 2017, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 90.2 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $93.1 million) out of retained earnings.
During fiscal year 2016, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 83.1 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $85.9 million) out of retained earnings.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved another share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares, following the expiration date of our 2014 buyback program.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make opportunistic repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
As of June 30, 2018, $209.9 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 buyback program.
The annual bonus is paid in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period is negatively affected as a result.
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation.
The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030.
As of June 30, 2018, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months.
Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements.
Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services.
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Logitech Europe S.A., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of two third-party contract manufacturers' purchase obligations.
As of June 30, 2018, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million, of which $1.2 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of June 30, 2018, no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions.
We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
The stock purchase agreement that we entered into in connection with the investment by three venture capital firms in Lifesize contains representations, warranties and covenants of Logitech and Lifesize to the Investors.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
