Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.
We report our results in U.S.
The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar.
Certain operations use the Swiss Franc or the local currency of the country as their functional currencies.
Accordingly, unrealized currency gains or losses resulting from the translation of net assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies to the U.S. Dollar are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity.
We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk as we transact business in multiple currencies, including exposure related to anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
We transact business in over 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to operations are the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, Taiwanese Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso.
As of June 30, 2018, net liabilities held in CNY totaled $9.7 million.
We enter into​ cash flow hedge​ contracts to ​protect​ against exchange rate exposure​ of ​forecasted inventory purchases.
Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
As of June 30, 2018 the notional amounts of currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $72.4 million.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases.
Deferred realized and unrealized gain and loss was not material as of June 30, 2018.
These contracts generally mature within one month.
managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk.
The gains or losses on these currency exchange contracts are recognized in earnings based on the changes in fair value.
Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The notional amounts of currency exchange contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 relating to foreign currency receivables or payables were $60.5 million and $47.2 million, respectively.
Open forward and swap contracts as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, Taiwanese Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates.
