You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
Our total sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018, supported by stronger sales in the Americas and EMEA.
Blue Microphones contributed 2 points to the sales growth during the period.
Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% and 12% in the Americas and EMEA, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 in Asia Pacific were flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 30 basis points to 37.1% from 36.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Operating expenses were 29.7% of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 31.5% of sales in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
 Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $45.3 million, compared to $38.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing.
The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
 On May 19, 2019, the Swiss electorate approved TRAF, a major reform to better align the Swiss tax system with international tax standards.
The tax reform is expected to take effect on January 1, 2020.
As of June 30, 2019, TRAF has not been enacted as the federal and cantonal legislative procedures are in process.
We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019.
We continue to monitor the enactment process and our transitional measures to comply with federal and cantonal tax reform provisions.
 The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements adopted and to be adopted.
Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current period’s average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales.
Given our global sales presence and the reporting of our financial results in U.S.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
References to “sales” mean net sales, except as otherwise specified, and the sales growth discussion and sales growth rate percentages are based on U.S.
Although our financial results are reported in U.S.
Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 47% of our sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
The sales in our Asia Pacific region were flat.
Growth in Video Collaboration was offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers.
Sales of Pointing Devices decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
PC Webcams sales decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease was primarily driven by a decline in the sales of our HD Pro Webcam C920.
The decrease was primarily driven by declines in the sales of our gaming headsets and console gaming headsets, partially offset by increases in the sales of PC gaming mice and console gaming controllers.
Sales of Video Collaboration products increased 25% in the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by the sales of our Rally Ultra-HD PTZ Conference Camera introduced in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 and an increase in the sales of our MeetUp video conference camera.
Sales of Mobile Speakers increased 47% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and an increase in the sales of Ultimate Ears MEGABOOM, partially offset by declines in the sales for other existing Ultimate Ears speakers.
Smart Home sales increased 9% during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in the sales of our home video products, partially offset by declines in sales of our Harmony remote products.
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, technical support for customer experiences and facilities costs.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, marketing and selling expenses increased $8.4 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increases were primarily driven by higher advertising and marketing expenses and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition.
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, research and development expenses increased $3.3 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead, information technology, and facilities costs for the infrastructure functions such as finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, general and administrative expenses decreased $3.3 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for the three-month period was primarily driven by lower personnel-related costs.
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names.
The increase in amortization of intangible assets during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily driven by the intangible assets acquired through the Blue Microphones acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support our long-term growth opportunities.
In July, 2018, our Board of Directors approved additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million, of which $11.8 million has been recognized cumulatively as of June 30, 2019.
The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company has substantially completed this restructuring plan.
Investment income represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries.
Currency exchange gain (loss), net relates to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in our subsidiaries, as well as to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on currency exchange forward contracts.
We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize currency exchange gains and minimize currency exchange losses.
We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019.
In the three months ended June 30, 2019, there was a discrete tax provision of $2.3 million to record net deferred tax liability in Switzerland.
Furthermore, there were discrete tax benefits of $5.8 million and $1.2 million from the recognition of excess tax benefits in the United States and reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations, respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019, compared with $8.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $597.0 million, compared to $604.5 million as of March 31, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, 76% of the cash and cash equivalents were held in Switzerland and 12% held in Hong Kong and China.
 The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2019, was primarily due to payment of annual bonus during the period, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and shares repurchased under our share buyback program, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights and net cash provided by operating activities.
As of June 30, 2019, our working capital was $648.3 million, compared to $632.6 million as of March 31, 2019.
The increase was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net, higher inventories and lower accrued and other current liabilities, partially offset by lower cash and cash equivalents and higher accounts payable.
Our working capital increased by $49.6 million compared to $596.7 million as of June 30, 2018, which was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net, higher inventories and lower accounts payable, partially offset by lower cash and cash equivalents and higher accrued and other current liabilities.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.3 million as of June 30, 2019.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.
As of June 30, 2019, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $15.7 million under these lines of credit.
DSO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 2 days to 59 days, compared to 57 days for the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to timing of sales, customer payments and claims.
DPO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by 5 days, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the timing of purchases and related payments.
ITO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was approximately unchanged, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we generated $36.5 million of cash from operating activities.
The increase in accounts receivable, net was primarily driven by growth and timing of sales, customer payments and claims.
The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the timing of purchases and related payments.
Net cash used in investing activities was $9.5 million, primarily due to $9.3 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities was $34.1 million, primarily due to $15.1 million used for repurchases of our registered shares, and $19.4 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, partially offset by $0.4 million in proceeds received from exercises of stock options and purchase rights.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, there was a $0.5 million loss from currency exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a loss of $7.3 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The loss from currency translation exchange effect during the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, Brazilian Real and Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar by 5%, 14% and 4%, respectively, during the period.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings.
In May 2019, the Board of Directors recommended that the Company pay CHF121.8 million ($122.4 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2019) in cash dividends out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2019.
In fiscal year 2018, we paid a cash dividend of CHF100.0 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $104.2 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2017.
The dividend to be paid in fiscal year 2020 and any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved our 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares over a three-year period.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
As of June 30, 2019, $172.4 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program.
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030.
As of June 30, 2019, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months.
Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements.
Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services.
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of June 30, 2019, no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions.
We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
