You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that have an everyday place in people's lives, connecting them to the digital experiences they care about.
More than 35 years ago Logitech created products to improve experiences around the PC platform, and now it is designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content (e.g., music, gaming, video), whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
On August 11, 2017 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired certain assets and liabilities constituting the ASTRO Gaming business ("ASTRO") from AG Acquisition Corporation for a purchase price of $85.0 million in cash (the "ASTRO Acquisition").
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, due to stronger net sales across all regions.
The ASTRO business is highly seasonal and it typically generates approximately half of its fiscal year sales in the third quarter.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, ASTRO contributed $33.5 million and $36.2 million to net sales, respectively, representing approximately 4% of our net sales for the three-month period and 2% for the nine-month period.
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased 31%, 9% and 25% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 18%, 8% and 22% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
We added a new third-party logistics provider and distribution center in North America in the second half of the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 to support our growth.
We experienced significant challenges in the transition from one distribution center to two, operating procedures at the newer distribution center, and in ramping fulfillment in the second quarter and early third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result, we incurred additional cost on freight and warehouse-related expense.
We have started transition back to only one distribution center for North America and the process is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2017 decreased to 33.9% from 37.0% for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Approximately 150 basis points of the decrease in gross margin was driven by an increase in logistics costs including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America and the remaining decrease was primarily due to an increase in promotions related to product transition, and product mix, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
Our gross margin for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased to 35.3% from 36.4% for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by an increase in logistics costs including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America, an increase in promotions related to product transition, and product mix, partially offset by product cost reductions and lower variable compensation based on operational metrics in the recent quarter.
Operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were $175.3 million, or 21.6% of net sales, compared to $150.5 million, or 22.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 were $506.4 million, or 25.6% of net sales, compared to $446.7 million, or 26.1% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for the three-month period was primarily driven by higher external expenses to support the advertising and marketing efforts for our new products, higher personnel related cost due to additional headcount from ASTRO Acquisition, and a credit from change in fair value of contingent consideration from the Jaybird Acquisition in the prior year, partially offset by lower variable compensation for fiscal year 2018 based on operational metrics.
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing.
The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
We will continue to explore other innovative experiences for the Smart Home.
We have historically experienced higher net sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions discussed below, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Topic 330, previously required an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or market, with market value represented by replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less a normal profit margin.
We adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Changes to the statements of cash flows related to the classification of excess tax benefits were implemented on a retroactive basis and accordingly, to conform to the current year presentation, we reclassified $6.4 million of excess tax benefits previously reported under financing activities to operating activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Under the new standard, we account for forfeitures as they occur.
The change in accounting for forfeitures resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings as of March 31, 2017 by $3.3 million.
We further recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to increase retained earnings as of March 31, 2017 by $57.2 million upon adoption of the new guidance to account for gross excess tax benefits of $75.2 million that were previously not recognized because the related tax deduction had not reduced current income taxes, offset by a valuation allowance of $18.0 million to reduce the deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, "Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic 350)" ("ASU 2017-04"), which removes Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
We adopted this standard effective April 1, 2017, which has not had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements to be adopted.
Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current period’s average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by significant shifts in currency exchange rates.
Although our financial results are reported in U.S.
Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, 47% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased 22% and 15%, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
If currency exchange rates had been constant in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our constant dollar sales growth rates would have been 18% and 14%, respectively.
We grew across most of our product categories, with Gaming, Smart Home, Video Collaboration and Mobile Speakers growing double digits for both periods presented above compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
Net sales in EMEA increased 9% and 8% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The growth in both periods was driven by sales increases in Gaming, Mobile Speakers, Smart Home, and Video Collaboration, partially offset by declines in Pointing Devices and PC Webcams.
Net sales of Pointing Devices decreased 1% for the three months ended and increased 1% for the nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for the nine-month period was driven by an increase in sales of trackball and presentation tools, partially offset by the decrease in the sales of mice and other pointing devices.
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
PC Webcams net sales decreased 11% and remained flat in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for the three-month period was primarily driven by the decreases in sales across most webcam products within this product category.
Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes products which combine audio and video and other products that can connect small- and medium-sized user groups.
Net sales of Video Collaboration products increased 29% and 45% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
Net sales of Mobile Speakers increased 38% and 15% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increases for both periods were primarily due to the introduction of Ultimate Ears WONDERBOOM in early fiscal year 2018, and the launch of MEGABLAST and BLAST in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Our Smart Home category includes our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers, home security cameras and new products, incorporating voice assistants, dedicated to controlling emerging categories of connected smart home devices such as lighting, thermostats and door locks.
Smart Home net sales increased 44% and 47% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increases were primarily due to the continued success of our Harmony Smart home remote, as well as the introduction of Circle 2 Wired and Circle 2 Wireless security cameras in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2017 decreased by 310 basis points compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Approximately 150 basis points of the decrease in gross margin was driven by an increase in logistics costs including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America and the remaining decrease was primarily due to an increase in promotions related to product transition, and product mix, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
Our gross margin for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased by 110 basis points compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by an increase in logistics costs including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America, an increase in promotions related to product transition, and product mix, partially offset by product cost reductions and lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
The increase in total operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was mainly due to increases in marketing and selling expenses from higher external expenses to support the advertising and marketing efforts for our new products and higher personnel related costs from additional headcount and from ASTRO Acquisition, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
In addition, there was a $9.9 million credit from the change in fair value of contingent consideration for a business acquisition in the prior year, which did not exist in the current year.
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead cost, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support, and facilities costs.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, marketing and selling expenses increased $14.1 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by $11.2 million higher external expenses to support the advertising and marketing efforts for our new products and $1.6 million higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount and from ASTRO Acquisition, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, marketing and selling expenses increased $46.2 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by $29.7 million higher external expenses to support the advertising and marketing efforts for our new products and $14.8 million higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs for contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, research and development expenses increased $2.1 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount to support the development and launch of new products and capabilities and from ASTRO Acquisition, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, research and development expenses increased $9.3 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by $9.7 million higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount to support the development and launch of new products and capabilities, partially offset by lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead and facilities costs for the finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal functions.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, general and administrative expenses decreased $2.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower variable compensation based on operational metrics.
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration for business acquisition decreased $4.9 million.
The decrease in fair value of contingent consideration is primarily due to the agreement we reached with the sellers of Jaybird.
In October 2017, we entered into an agreement with the sellers of Jaybird fully, irrevocably and unconditionally releases the Company from the earn-out rights and payments in the Jaybird Acquisition agreement in exchange for $5.0 million in cash, which approximates the fair value of the contingent consideration as of September 30, 2017.
See "Note 7 - Fair Value Measurements" to our condensed consolidated financial statements for further details.
In the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, there was a discrete income tax benefit of $6.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations.
In the same periods ended December 31, 2016, the income tax benefit from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations was $9.4 million and $11.1 million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $564.9 million, compared to $547.5 million as of March 31, 2017, of which 38% is held in Switzerland, 30% is held in Germany, and 14% is held in Hong Kong and China as of December 31, 2017.
 The increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to the net income and proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights partially offset by the payment of cash dividends, cash paid for acquisitions, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and the purchases of our shares.
As of December 31, 2017, our working capital was $546.0 million, compared to $520.8 million as of March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher accounts receivable, net, partially offset by higher accounts payable, higher accruals and other liabilities.
Our working capital increased compared to $478.7 million as of December 31, 2016, which was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net and higher inventories, partially offset by higher accounts payable and higher accruals and other liabilities.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $62.1 million as of December 31, 2017.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.
As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $44.2 million under these lines of credit.
DSO for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased two days, compared to December 31, 2016, primarily due to the introduction of breakage model for EMEA marketing and incentive programs during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017.
DPO for the three months ended December 31, 2017 decreased five days, compared to December 31, 2016, primarily due to the timing of purchases.
The increase in inventories compared with December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by higher net sales.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, we generated $256.1 million cash in operating activities.
The increase in accounts receivable, net was primarily due to higher sales and timing of customer payments, and the increase in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities was primarily driven by the timing of payments.
Net cash used in investing activities was $116.2 million, primarily due to $85.0 million of purchase price for the acquisition of the ASTRO business (refer to "Note 2- Business Acquisition" to the condensed consolidated financial statements) and $27.6 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased by $4.2 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, mainly due to the higher amount of tooling purchases.
Net cash used in financing activities was $124.2 million, primarily for the $104.2 million cash dividends paid, $20.4 million repurchases of our registered shares, $25.5 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, and $5.0 million payment of contingent consideration in connection with the Jaybird acquisition, partially offset by $30.9 million in proceeds received from the exercises of stock options.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, there was a $1.7 million gain of currency translation exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a loss of $6.5 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The gain from currency translation exchange effect during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar by 12% during the period.
The loss from currency translation exchange effect during the nine months ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar by 8% during the period, which had an adverse impact on our cash and cash equivalents balances in subsidiaries with Euro as their functional currency.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, we declared and paid cash dividends of approximately CHF 0.61 (USD equivalent of $0.63) per common share, totaling $104.2 million on our outstanding common stock.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved another share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our own shares, following the expiration date of our 2014 buyback program.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make opportunistic repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
As of December 31, 2017, $230.2 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 buyback program.
As noted in "Note 7 - Fair Value Measurements" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, we acquired all of the equity interest of Jaybird with an additional earn-out of up to $45.0 million in cash based on the achievement of certain net revenue growth targets over two years starting July 2016.
If the net revenue growth targets were met, the Company would have paid a maximum of $25.0 million and $20.0 million in fiscal years 2018 and 2019, respectively.
In October 2017, we entered into an agreement with the sellers of Jaybird which fully, irrevocably and unconditionally releases us from the earn-out rights and payments in the Jaybird purchase agreement in exchange for $5.0 million in cash.
In November 2017, we made the payment of $5.0 million to the sellers of Jaybird.
We have changed the payment frequency of our employee performance bonus plan from semi-annual payment to annual payment.
The full year bonus is expected to be made in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period will be negatively affected as a result.
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation.
The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030.
As of December 31, 2017, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months.
Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements.
Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services.
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Logitech Europe S.A., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of two third-party contract manufacturers' purchase obligations.
As of December 31, 2017, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million, of which $1.7 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of December 31, 2017, no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions.
We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
The stock purchase agreement that we entered into in connection with the investment by three venture capital firms in Lifesize contains representations, warranties and covenants of Logitech and Lifesize to the Investors.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
