From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results.
•We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period.
•We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories.
•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S.
Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited.
Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards.
As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
•Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process is also lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment.
Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products.
We believe sales of PCs will continue to decline, and that our future growth will depend on our diversified product growth opportunities beyond the PC, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, if our growth opportunities are more limited than we expect or if our sales of PC peripherals are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform.
Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future.
As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and in some cases declining and we expect this trend may continue.
global financial implications in places such as Russia and Ukraine, and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook.
As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities.
We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area.
Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase.
If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines, introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
While we view the small and medium sized user groups' opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we are developing.
If the market opportunity proves to exist, we expect increasing competition from the large competitors in the video conferencing market as well as potential new entrants.
While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market.
Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors.
In addition to our current growth opportunities, our future growth may be reliant on our ability to identify and develop potential new growth opportunities.
This process is inherently risky and will result in investments in time and resources for which we do not achieve any return or value.
Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms.
In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns.
If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years.
We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success.
Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require significant investments and will depend largely on our future design, products and marketing, which may not be successful and may damage our brands.
The peripherals industry is intensely competitive.
Most of our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets.
We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands.
In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins.
In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets.
We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets.
As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have.
In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter.
Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Polycom, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have.
In addition, Microsoft, Apple and Google each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base.
As a result, Microsoft, Apple and Google each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements.
This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages.
In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share.
Apple's ownership of Beats Electronics may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market.
Personal assistance and other devices that offer music, such as Amazon's Echo, may also compete with our products.
Amazon is also a significant distributor for our products.
Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc., and AVer Information Inc.
Competition in the home control market also exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet), Wink and many other startups.
We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies.
The worldwide market for consumer PC webcams has been declining, and as a result, fewer competitors have entered the market.
Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized.
With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms.
Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors.
Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms.
As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners.
Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us.
If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products.
Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand.
We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space.
Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories.
Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them.
In addition, during fiscal year 2016 we increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities.
This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing.
We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory.
These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand.
 We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products.
We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future.
Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management.
Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace.
From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions.
We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation.
If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.
If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees.
In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows.
We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer.
Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus.
We have also experienced turnover in our workforce.
These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent.
In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines.
As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories.
As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs.
As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals.
We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business.
In addition, we are continuing the rationalization of our general and administrative expense, infrastructure and indirect procurement to reduce operating expenses.
Our ability to achieve the desired and anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these simplification, cost-cutting and restructuring activities, and within our desired and expected timeframes, are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements.
There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities.
To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future.
Furthermore, we are expecting to be able to use the anticipated cost savings from these activities to fund and support our current growth opportunities and incremental investments for future growth.
As we grow, explore new opportunities and markets, hire new management and other personnel, and fund research and development, marketing, brand development, sales, operations, investments in intellectual property and acquisitions to support this growth and our new opportunities, some or all of which may not succeed, we expect to experience continued pressure on our cost structure and expenses.
As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years.
While we are constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing.
We continue to review our product portfolio and update our non-strategic product categories and products.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business.
Discontinuing products with service components may also cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand.
Divestitures may also involve warranties, indemnification or covenants that could restrict our business or result in litigation, additional expenses or liabilities.
In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories.
As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment.
We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities.
Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities.
If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed.
Acquisitions could also result in the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, disputes over earn-outs or other litigation, and adverse effects on relationships with our and our target’s employees, customers and suppliers.
Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of share-based compensation.
Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including $122.7 million and $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charges in fiscal years 2015 and 2013, respectively, related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations.
In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours.
We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business.
While most of our sales are made to sales channel partners, we are dependent on those distributors and retailers to distribute and sell our products to other sales channel partners and ultimately to consumers.
The sales and business practices of such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation.
The impact of economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption.
channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected.
Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms.
Our sales channel partners, the distributors and retailers who distribute and sell our products, also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors.
If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our retailer channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products.
In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns.
If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer.
As we expand into new product categories and markets in pursuit of growth, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models.
These new partners, practices and models may require significant management attention and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period.
Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult.
We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, direct and indirect customer incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners.
These reserves are based on judgments and estimates, using historical experience rates, inventory levels in distribution, current trends and other factors.
There could be significant differences between the actual costs of such arrangements and programs and our estimates.
We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products.
Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products.
In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales.
In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our retailer and distributor customers.
Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area.
The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers, including other design manufacturers, in China and Malaysia.
Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on China’s available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issues, import-export issues, currency transfer restrictions, natural disasters, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future.
Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs.
Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs.
In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines.
These conditions could adversely affect our financial results.
We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources.
Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity.
From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products.
Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
The moral and regulatory imperatives to avoid purchasing conflict minerals are causing us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products and could adversely affect the distribution and sales of our products.
Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union.
The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products.
The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals.
In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.
As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation.
We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could, if we are unable to satisfy their requirements or pass through any increased costs associated with meeting their requirements place us at a competitive disadvantage, adversely affect our business and operating results, or both.
We filed our report for the calendar year 2016 with the SEC on May 30, 2017.
If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales.
Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products.
If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, if our manufacturers, distribution logistics providers or transport providers are not able to successfully and timely process our business or if we do not receive timely and accurate information from such providers, and especially if we expand into new product categories or our business grows in volume, we may have an insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand, we could lose sales, we may experience a build-up in inventory, we may incur additional costs, and our financial performance and reporting may be adversely affected.
We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us.
•A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more.
Sales growth in key markets, including China, is an important part of our expectations for our business.
Policy changes in the United States or other countries, given our lack of manufacturing in those countries or for other protectionist reasons, could result in tariffs or other adverse tax consequences or may cause us to change the structure of how we currently operate, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates.
Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. Dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide.
For the three months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 47% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S.
Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may also limit our ability to increase prices in the event of fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results.
We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates.
Moreover, these exposures may change over time.
As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions and expanding into new growth categories, and as a Swiss, dual - listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations.
Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters.
Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both.
These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products.
As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations.
In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject.
The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder “say on pay” vote with respect to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters.
In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee.
The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors.
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP which are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB, the SEC, and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles.
New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future which may have a significant effect on our financial results or our compliance with regulations.
As a result of changes in tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements, or their interpretation, of Switzerland or any other country in which we operate, the loss of a major tax dispute or a successful challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, or other factors, our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows.
In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate.
Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years.
There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods.
We are incorporated in the Canton of Vaud in Switzerland and our effective income tax rate benefits from a longstanding ruling from the Canton of Vaud.
The tax rules in Switzerland are expected to change in response to certain guidance and demands from both the European Union and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and that could have an adverse effect on our tax ruling and effective income tax rate.
We file Swiss and foreign tax returns.
For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate.
If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected.
We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, such as entering new markets and introducing products for tablets, other mobile devices, digital music, and video collaboration.
We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets.
Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap.
We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights.
Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property.
We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries.
In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property.
Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights.
Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards.
The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture.
Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us.
There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell.
Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product liability claims and litigation product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy.
While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase liability insurance, our reserves may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities and our insurance is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities.
Furthermore, our contracts with distributors and retailers may contain warranty, indemnification and other provisions related to product quality issues, and claims under those provisions may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business.
As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products.
We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption, training and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse.
Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, structural or operational failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, other data security issues, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events.
Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers’ or our business partners’ data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems.
As disclosed in Part 1, Item 4 of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.
A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
As a result of the material weakness identified, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2017, based on criteria established in the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
In the past, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in our previous Annual Reports on Form 10-K.
The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches.
In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers.
This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe.
In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter.
Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business.
We recently upgraded our worldwide business application suite, and difficulties, distraction or disruptions may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and operating results.
During fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we devoted significant resources to the upgrade of our worldwide business application suite to Oracle’s version R12.
As a result of our transition to the new business application suite, we may experience difficulties with our systems, management distraction, lack of visibility into our business operations and results, and significant business disruptions.
intercompany processes, promotion management, internal financial controls, pricing, and our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers and consumers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run and track our business.
In addition, we may need to expend significant attention, time and resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions.
We cannot ensure that our recently announced share repurchase program will be fully utilized or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value.
Share repurchases may also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares and diminish our cash reserves.
This program does not obligate us to repurchase all or any of the dollar-value of shares authorized for repurchase.
The program could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares, and any announcement of a termination or suspension of the program may result in a decrease in our share price.
The program could also diminish our cash reserves that may be needed for investments in our business, acquisitions or other purposes.
Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges.
The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations.
We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again.
