Logitech’s Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), after evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, have concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Disclosure Controls are controls and procedures designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure Controls are also designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
The Company’s Disclosure Controls include components of its internal control over financial reporting, which consists of control processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
To the extent that components of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are included within its Disclosure Controls, they are included in the scope of the Company’s annual controls evaluation.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.
Other than certain controls implemented in connection with adoption of the amended accounting standard for revenue recognition (Topic 606), there have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
