item1.txt
Mesa Laboratories, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado on  March 26, 1982. The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa” are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted. We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets where we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across ten physical locations. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport. 
In  May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP and is intended to improve and converge with international standards the financial reporting requirements for revenue from contracts with customers. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. ASU 2014-09 allows for adoption either on a full retrospective basis to each prior reporting period presented or on a modified retrospective basis with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new guidance recognized at the date of initial application, which will be effective for the Company beginning  April 1, 2018. 
We plan to adopt ASU 2014-09 and its amendments on a modified retrospective basis and are continuing to assess all future impacts of the guidance by reviewing our current contracts with customers to identify potential differences that could result from applying the new guidance. Based on our review, we expect that the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. As we continue our assessment, we are also identifying and preparing to implement minor changes to our accounting policies and practices, business processes, systems and controls to support the new revenue recognition and disclosure requirements. Our assessment will be completed during the year ending  March 31, 2018. 
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge. ASU 2017-04 is required to be applied prospectively and we elected to early adopt ASU 2017-04 effective  April 1, 2017.   
During the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers. During the three months ended  December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business. Based on these facts, we concluded that we had a triggering event requiring assessment of impairment for certain of our long-lived assets associated with the Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment. As a result, we reviewed the long-lived assets associated with this reporting segment and recorded a $13,819,000 impairment charge related to goodwill, which is included in impairment loss on goodwill on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017. The impairment loss was measured using a market approach utilizing an EBITA multiple model. The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $1,434,000 and $4,340,000, respectively as of  December 31, 2017.   
In  July 2017, we completed the move from the Omaha facility and subsequently sold that building for $1,116,000 (net of commission costs) which resulted in a gain of $116,000 which is included in other expense, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017. 
On  March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500,000 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000,000. Funds from the Credit Facility  may be used to pay down the previous credit facility, finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, permitted acquisitions). 
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we  may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0. We were compliant with the required covenants at  December 31, 2017. 
The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes”). We use historical data to estimate the expected price volatility, the expected stock option life and expected forfeiture rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the United States Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the estimated life of the stock option. The dividend yield is calculated based upon the dividend payments made during the prior four quarters as a percent of the average stock price for that period.  
As of  December 31, 2017, there was $7,513,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options and shares of restricted stock. As of  December 31, 2017, we have 749,608 shares available for future grants.  
Basic net (loss) income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted net (loss) income per share is computed similarly to basic net (loss) income per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. 


item2.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets where we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across ten physical locations. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport. 
In April 2016, we completed a business combination (the “ATS Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all the assets (other than cash and certain inventories and fixed assets) and certain liabilities of Autoclave Testing Services, Inc. and Autoclave Testing Supplies, Inc., (collectively, “ATS”). ATS was in the business of supplying products and services for dental sterilizer testing in both the U.S. and Canada; and 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the year ending March 31, 2018, we continue to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including the relocation of our Omaha, Traverse City and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams and the rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).  
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions. The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes.  
Overall revenues declined one percent, while organic revenues declined four percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2017, resulting from organic decreases of nine and 36 percent from the Instruments and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by increases of seven and three percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively. Overall revenues were flat, while organic revenues declined two percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 resulting from organic decreases of four, four and 36 percent from the Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an increase of nine percent for the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division. 
During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we elected to discontinue for sale certain products in our Instruments, Cold Chain Monitoring and Sterilization and Disinfection Control Divisions due to the recent introduction of new or modified products and the consolidation of other product sets. As part of this process, we analyzed the remaining inventories associated with these products to determine future usability and reserved against what we believed to be excess or obsolete, resulting in an increase in our inventory reserve of $406,000 (of which $216,000 related to the Cold Chain Monitoring Division). At this time, we also established a plan to liquidate certain Cold Chain Monitoring raw material components related to the above-mentioned discontinued products. During both the three months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017, we subjected additional inventories to our liquidation program due to the discontinuance or winding-down of additional older product sets resulting from the release of our new ViewPoint operating platform. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, it became evident that our liquidation program was ineffective, and we determined that a significant amount of these inventories was not recoverable as previously planned. As such, we increased our Cold Chain Monitoring inventory reserve by $1,700,000. Company-wide gross margin percentage for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was 54 and 56 percent, respectively but would have been 61 and 59 percent, respectively without the impact of these additional inventory reserves. 
Instruments revenues for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased due to organic decreases of nine and four percent, respectively. The decrease for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to the slower than expected adoption of an updated medical product. We realized a normalization of the adoption rate of this product towards the end of the quarter and as such we ramped up production to meet anticipated future demand. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to organic growth of three percent and the FreshLoc Acquisition. Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to the FreshLoc Acquisition, partially offset by organic decreases of four percent. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of customer acceptance of certain installations and the nature and timing of orders within any given quarter. 
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to volume based efficiencies associated with increased revenues and the impact of using internally manufactured biological indicators for our dental sterilizer testing business as opposed to the prior year where we were contractually committed to purchase a significant portion of those biological indicators from an outside supplier at a significantly higher price. 
Selling expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased primarily due to reductions of selling personnel, trade show activities and outside commissions. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight and 10 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively as compared to 10 and 11 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016. 
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility and potential equity and debt offerings. We believe that cash generated from these sources will be sufficient to meet our short-term and long-term needs. Our more significant uses of resources include quarterly dividends to shareholders, payment of debt obligations, long-term capital equipment expenditures and potential acquisitions.  
In August 2016, we announced that we plan to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building. The move of these two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and is estimated to be completed by June 30, 2018. We estimate that the total costs of the relocation will be $2,100,000 (which is comprised primarily of facility moving expenses, retention bonuses for existing personnel and payroll costs for duplicative personnel during the transition period) of which $725,000 was incurred during the year ended March 31, 2017 and $772,000 was incurred during the nine months ended December 31, 2017, which is reflected in cost of revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations (other than $269,000 which is included in general and administrative).  
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for a $80,000,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500,000 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate comprised of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000,000. 
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0.  


item4.txt
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2013. 


part2.txt
See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved. 
We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers. Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements. 
  31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   
  32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   


