item1.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements. The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods. We will adopt this new rule beginning with our financial reporting for the quarter ended December 31, 2018. Upon adoption, we will include our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity with each quarterly filing on Form 10-Q. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements. We are still assessing the expected impact of the standard on our consolidated balance sheets, but it will not significantly impact our consolidated statements of income and cash flows. 
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis. ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services. The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows. The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2. “Revenue Recognition.” 
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions. Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e. the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations). We do not have any contract assets. Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional. 
In August 2016, we announced that we planned to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building. The move of those two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and was completed as of June 30, 2018. The total cost of the relocation was $1,584 (which is comprised primarily of facility moving expenses, retention bonuses for existing personnel and payroll costs for duplicative personnel during the transition period) and these costs pertain to the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division. 
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000. 
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of September 30, 2018. 
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 15,919 shares of our common stock to eligible employees. The weighted average grant date fair value of the RSUs was $151.54 per share. The RSUs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. During the six months ended September 30, 2018, 1,720 RSUs vested, and 185 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled. 
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we awarded 11,385 performance share units (“PSUs”) that are subject to both service and performance conditions to eligible employees. The PSUs had a grant date fair value of $192.99 per share and vest both based on our achievement of specific performance criteria for the three-year period from April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2021, as well as continued service through June 15, 2021. The quantity of shares that will be issued upon vesting will range from 0 percent to 400 percent of the targeted number of shares; if the defined minimum targets are not met, then no shares will vest. 
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 24,940 shares of common stock to eligible employees. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.56 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $143.36 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The NQSOs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. 
We issue shares in connection with stock-based compensation pursuant to the Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 2014 Equity Plan (the “2014 Equity Plan”). For the purposes of counting the shares remaining as available under the 2014 Incentive Plan, each share issuable pursuant to outstanding full value awards, such as RSUs and PSUs, counts as five shares issued, whereas each share underlying a stock option counts as one share issued. Under the 2014 Equity Plan, 1,100,000 shares of common stock have been authorized and reserved for eligible participants, of which 595,729 shares were available for future grants as of September 30, 2018.  
Our effective income tax rate was 23.9 percent and 24.2 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and 8.4 percent and 12.2 percent for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate for the six months ended September 30, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of share-based payment awards for employees, state income taxes, foreign derived intangible income deduction, and the foreign rate differential. 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”). Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive. 
In February 2018, Dr. James L. Orrington II filed a purported civil class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging that we sent unsolicited advertisements to telephone facsimile machines. The complaint includes counts alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act, Conversion, Nuisance, and Trespass to Chattels. The plaintiff seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. Additionally, in June 2018, Rowan Family Dentistry, Inc. filed a purported class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado making substantially the same claims as Dr. James L. Orrington II and seeking substantially the same relief. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an expense of $3,300 as an estimate of our potential loss associated with the matter. The expense is recorded in estimated legal settlement on our condensed consolidated statements of income and a corresponding liability is included in estimated legal liability on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We intend to vigorously defend the aforementioned cases; however, we may ultimately be subject to liabilities greater or less than the amount accrued.  


item2.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations). 
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions. The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues decreased six percent and increased two percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of performance obligations and the nature and timing of orders and installations within any given quarter. 
Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018. The higher-than-usual order rate was not sustained in the second quarter, resulting in organic growth declines for the three months ended September 30, 2018.  
Instruments gross margin percentage was flat during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Instruments gross margin percentage increased during the six months ended September 30, 2018 due to favorable product and service mix, as well as a $163 increase in inventory reserve recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of the decision to discontinue the sale of certain instruments products. 
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes related to a large customer contract containing lower-than-standard contractual pricing. Additionally, we experienced significantly higher costs on certain commodities during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 than in previous periods. We are currently implementing a commercial initiative to pass some of these costs increases on to our customers. Even if we are successful with this initiative, we expect that our Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin percentage will continue to be substantially lower than the historical results of our other segments due to the nature of these products. 
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Selling expense for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 21 percent and 26 percent, respectively, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was seven percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 10 percent and 11 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth. 
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense. General and administrative expenses increased $1,081 during the three months ended September 30, 2018, due primarily to $718 of increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets. General and administrative costs increased $1,824 during the six months ended September 30, 2018, due primarily to $1,198 of increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets. 
Other expense for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 is composed primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Facility, offset by a $288 gain recorded on the sale of our Bozeman facility; see Note 4. “Facility Relocation” within Item 1. Financial Statements for more information. 
Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings. We believe that cash generated from these sources will be sufficient to meet our short-term and long-term needs. Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions. Working capital is the amount by which current assets exceed current liabilities. We had working capital of $14,059 and $14,698 at September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively. 


item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 


part2.txt
Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


