item1.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, our financial instruments were categorized as Level 1 (inputs are quoted prices in active markets) and include cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term and long-term debt. With the exception of long-term debt, the carrying value of these financial instruments is considered to be representative of their fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments. Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we completed the purchase of Point Six Wireless, LLC. We made an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based on our understanding of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities. We obtained the information to make the allocation during due diligence and through the use of other information available to us. In the months after closing, we will obtain additional information about the assets and liabilities acquired, including asset appraisals, and we will refine the estimates of the fair value to more accurately allocate the purchase price. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements. We are still assessing the expected impact of the standard on our consolidated balance sheets, but it will not significantly impact our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. 
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No. 33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements. The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods. We adopted this new rule beginning the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and have included our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity with this quarterly filing on Form 10-Q. 
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) to all contracts on a modified retrospective basis. ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services. The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, or cash flows. The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2. “Revenue Recognition.” 
Our contracts have varying payment terms and conditions. Some customers prepay for services, resulting in unearned revenues or customer deposits, called contract liabilities, which are included within other accrued expenses and unearned revenues in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets would exist when sales are recorded (i.e. the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the customer), but customer payment is contingent on a future event besides the passage of time (such as satisfaction of additional performance obligations). We do not have any contract assets. Unbilled receivables, which are not classified as contract assets, represent arrangements in which sales have been recorded prior to billing and right to payment is unconditional. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we performed an impairment analysis on our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment as the segment’s financial results continued to fall short of expectations. Specifically, rising commodity costs used in the segment’s principal product have increased over the past nine months, eroding the gross profit margin of the segment. We determined that the long-lived assets and goodwill associated with our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment were impaired and we recognized non-cash impairment charge of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $300 and $809, respectively as of December 31, 2018. The fair value of the impaired assets was determined using Level 3 inputs (unobservable inputs) based on a discounted cash flow method.    
In August 2016, we announced that we planned to shut down both our Omaha and Traverse City manufacturing facilities and relocate those operations to the new Bozeman building. The move of those two facilities, along with the current Bozeman operations, began in March 2017 and was completed as of June 30, 2018. The total cost of the relocation was $1,584 (which is comprised primarily of facility moving expenses, retention bonuses for existing personnel and payroll costs for duplicative personnel during the transition period) and these costs pertain to the Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division. 
On March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000. 
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2018. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) on 17,458 shares of our common stock to eligible employees. The weighted average grant date fair value of the RSUs was $154.91 per share. The RSUs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, 2,000 RSUs vested, and 1,445 RSUs were forfeited or cancelled. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we granted non-qualified stock options (“NQSOs”) on 25,544 shares of common stock to eligible employees. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the NQSOs was $53.93 per share with a weighted average exercise price of $144.65 per share based on the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The NQSOs generally vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the grant date over a period of five years. 
Our effective income tax rate was 9.5 percent and (5.3) percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively; and 8.6 percent and (18.0) percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 differed from the statutory federal rate of 21 percent primarily due to the impact of the state income taxes, share-based payment awards for employees, and the foreign rate differential. 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. Potentially dilutive securities include common shares related to stock options and non-vested stock awards (collectively “stock awards”). Stock awards are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in the event that they are subject to performance conditions or are antidilutive. 


item2.txt
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets in which we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators. Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries. The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products. 
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business. 
Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions. During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018. 
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions. The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs. As a result, we performed an impairment test on the reporting segment, and recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,028 on goodwill and $2,641 on long-lived assets, in impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. 
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues increased 15 percent and six percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of organic revenues growth. Revenues in this division fluctuate quarter over quarter due to the timing of performance obligations and the nature and timing of orders and installations within any given quarter. 
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. Excluding the impact of the moving expenses, gross margin percentage for both periods was essentially flat as compared to the prior year. 
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to $1,700 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017; excluding the impact of the reserve in the comparable period, gross margin percentage decreased as a result of timing of orders and unfavorable product mix variations. Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to $1,916 of inventory reserve expense recorded in the nine months ended December 31, 2017. Excluding the impact of the inventory reserve charge in the comparable period, gross profit margin percentage was flat as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2017. 
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions; accordingly, it may vary with sales levels. Selling expense increased six percent for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and decreased 17 percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to timing of the reduction and replacement of selling personnel. As a percentage of revenues, selling expense was eight percent and seven percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to eight percent and ten percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. We plan to continue to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources in an effort to further increase organic revenues growth. 
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense. General and administrative expenses increased $1,475 during the three months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and higher salary expense. General and administrative costs increased $3,299 during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, due primarily to increased incentive-based compensation as a result of the Company’s financial performance and increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. We expect to incrementally increase our headcount in the future as we continue to invest in future organic revenues growth. 
Our income tax rate varies based upon many factors but in general, we anticipate that on a go-forward basis, our effective tax rate will be approximately 26 percent, plus or minus the impact of excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to employees; see Note 8. “Income Taxes” within Item 1. Financial Statements for additional discussion. The excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to our employees have caused and, in the future, may cause large fluctuations in our realized effective tax rate based on timing, volume, and nature of stock options exercised under our share-based payment program. Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $5,418 and $2,424 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation, respectively). Net income for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was also significantly impacted by a $3,669 impairment loss on goodwill and long-lived assets (see Note 3. “Impairment Loss on Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets” within Item 1. Financial Statements. 


item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 


part2.txt
See Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1. “Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved. 
Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 


