item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented. The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information. Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for the three and six months ended October 26, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.  
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this new standard using the full retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. Refer to Note 5 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory. As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.  
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The remaining properties, consisting of land with a net book value of $52 million, were classified as assets held for sale, and included as other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of October 26, 2018 and April 27, 2018. We will consummate the sale of these properties, and receive cash proceeds of $96 million, upon the completion of the second closing, which is expected to occur within the next 12 months. That closing is subject to due diligence, certain termination rights and customary closing conditions, including local governmental approval of the subdivision of a land parcel.  
 Effective our first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method and have restated each prior reporting period presented to conform to the new rules. The most significant impact of the new standard relates to our accounting for arrangements containing software. For our enterprise software license agreements (ELAs), we now recognize the license fee component of such arrangements up front. Under the prior rules, the software license fee was recognized over the term of the enterprise license based on our inability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered software support element of these arrangements. In addition, for other software arrangements, revenue deferred for the undelivered elements that was previously allocated based on the residual method is now allocated based on relative fair value, which generally results in more software arrangement revenue being recognized earlier. The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses. 
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that (ii) defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and (iii) identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services. Additionally, (iv) the contract has commercial substance and, (v) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. We also combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer as a single contract if the contracts are negotiated as one package with a single commercial objective, the amount of consideration to be paid on one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract or if the goods and services promised in each of the contracts are a single performance obligation. 
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services (or a bundle of goods and services) that will be transferred to the customer that are distinct. A good or service is distinct if it is capable of being distinct, where the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and is distinct in the context of the contract, meaning the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met, we combine the goods and services until we have a distinct performance obligation.  
Determination of the transaction price — The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. Consideration promised may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both. We use judgment in determining variable consideration, particularly if consideration is contingent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a future event. We use the expected value, primarily relying on our history, to estimate variable consideration. We may also use, in certain situations, the most likely amount as the basis of our estimate. In either case, we consider variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Reassessments of our variable consideration may occur as historical information changes. Transaction prices should also be adjusted for the effects of time value of money if the timing of payments provides either the customer or ourselves a significant benefit of financing. 
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price basis. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Variable consideration is also allocated to the performance obligations. If the terms of variable consideration relate to one performance obligation, it is entirely allocated to that obligation. Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract. 
 To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we have historically grouped our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, ELAs and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.  
Deferred product revenue represents unrecognized revenue related to undelivered product commitments and other product deliveries that have not met all revenue recognition criteria. Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services. Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements. See Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to these arrangements.  


item2.txt
We are the data authority for the hybrid cloud. Digital transformation remains top of mind for executives. In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator. Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations. 
NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world. Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. It delivers integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security. 
Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT. Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer. 
Budget constraints and skill imbalances lead our customers to seek help in integrating, deploying and managing the solutions they need to stay competitive. This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions. FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe. Customers can break free from the limits of first-generation HCI with NetApp HCI and attain guaranteed performance with high levels flexibility, scale, automation, and integration with the Data Fabric. 
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we have historically grouped our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. 
As of the beginning of fiscal 2019, we adopted the new accounting standard Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the full retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. As illustrated in Note 5 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the overall impact of adoption was not significant to prior periods. However, application of the new rules to our ELAs resulted in approximately $20 million and $110 million of product revenues for such arrangements in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, that are incremental to the amounts we would have recognized under the old standard. Under ASC 606, we recognize the software license fee component of our ELAs up-front, whereas under the prior rules the software license fee was recognized over the term of the ELA. 
Our fiscal year is reported as a 52- or 53-week year that ends on the last Friday in April. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. 


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of October 26, 2018, we had fixed income debt investments of $2.0 billion. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, which are classified as available-for-sale investments. These investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, U.S. Treasury and government debt securities and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of October 26, 2018 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our fixed-income securities of approximately $47 million. Volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.  


item4.txt
The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report. 


part2.txt
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services. Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. 
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline. 
The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems. Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.  
For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 – Business of Part I of the 2018 Form 10-K. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge. Also, in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their acquisition of Nimble Storage. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. 
Continuing global economic uncertainty, political conditions and fiscal challenges in the United States (U.S.) and abroad have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage and networking industries at large, as well as the IT market, and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. Consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, which could cause harm to our operating results. Such conditions have resulted, and may in the future again result, in failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations and to achieve historical levels of revenue growth. 
Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and 
The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. 


