item1.txt
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory. As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation. In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, as of the beginning of the period.  
In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that requires a statement of cash flows to explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a retrospective transition method. Accordingly, our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended July 28, 2017, as presented herein, has been restated to comply with the new requirements. Refer to Note 5 – Supplemental Financial Information for a detail of the components of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, the new standard, as amended, allows lessees to apply the transition requirements either (1) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in the financial statements with the cumulative effect of applying the new rules recognized at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, or (2) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption with the cumulative effect of applying the new rules recognized then. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.  
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods. 
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that (ii) defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and (iii) identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services. Additionally, (iv) the contract has commercial substance and, (v) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the  
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price basis. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Variable consideration is also allocated to the performance obligations. If the terms of variable consideration relate to one performance obligation, it is entirely allocated to that obligation. Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract. 
Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation — We satisfy performance obligations either over time or at a point in time. We typically recognize revenue at a point in time for promises to transfer goods to a customer. Services are typically transferred over time based on an appropriate method for measuring our progress toward completion of that performance obligation. Our stand-ready services, including both hardware and software maintenance support, are transferred ratably over the period of the contract. For other services such as our fixed professional services contract, we use an input method to determine the percentage of completion. That is, we estimate the effort to date versus the expected effort required over the life of the contract.  
 To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, ELAs and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.  
Deferred product revenue represents unrecognized revenue related to undelivered product commitments and other product deliveries that have not met all revenue recognition criteria. Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services. Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements. See Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to these arrangements.  
 As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the unrealized losses on our available-for-sale investments were caused by market value declines as a result of increasing market interest rates. Because the declines in market value are attributable to changes in market conditions and not credit quality, and because we have determined that (i) we do not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized on these investments as of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018.  
Our Level 2 debt instruments are held by a custodian who prices some of the investments using standard inputs in various asset price models or obtains investment prices from third-party pricing providers that incorporate standard inputs in various asset price models. These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. We review Level 2 inputs and fair value for reasonableness and the values may be further validated by comparison to multiple independent pricing sources. In addition, we review third-party pricing provider models, key inputs and assumptions and understand  
As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $1,518 million and $1,523 million, respectively. The fair value of our long-term debt was based on observable market prices in a less active market. The fair value of our commercial paper notes approximated their carrying value. All of our debt obligations are categorized as Level 2 instruments.  
We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes. Amounts available under the Program, as amended in July 2017, may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days. As of April 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $385 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.29% and maturities ranging from 19 days to 32 days. 


item2.txt
We are the data authority for the hybrid cloud. Digital transformation remains top of mind for executives. In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator. Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations. 
NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world. Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. It delivers integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security. 
Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT. Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer. 
Budget constraints and skill imbalances lead our customers to seek help in integrating, deploying and managing the solutions they need to stay competitive. This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions. FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe. Customers can break free from the limits of first-generation HCI with NetApp HCI and attain guaranteed performance with high levels flexibility, scale, automation, and integration with the Data Fabric. 
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership. All-flash array technology is the de facto choice for primary application workloads as customers seek performance and economic benefits from replacing hard disk installations. With a highly differentiated and broad portfolio of all-flash and hybrid array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition. 
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products. Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. 


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of July 27, 2018, we had fixed income debt investments of $2.3 billion. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, which are classified as available-for-sale investments. These investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, U.S. Treasury and government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of July 27, 2018 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our fixed-income securities of approximately $55 million. Volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.  


item4.txt
The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report. 


part2.txt
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services. Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. 
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline. 
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements, including for the software license components of enterprise software license agreements, (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings, (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. 
The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems. Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.  
For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 – Business of Part I of the 2018 Form 10-K. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge. Also, in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their acquisition of Nimble Storage. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. 
The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. 
We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 
Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets. In particular, strategic  


