The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
Based on this ongoing assessment, the Company intends to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis on April 2, 2018, the first day of fiscal 2019.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.Item 2.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
Our third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue decreased by 0.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%.
Our third quarter fiscal year 2018 gross profit decreased by 1.2%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 1.6% compared to the prior-year quarter.
As a result, net income increased by 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased by 26.7% compared to the prior-year quarter.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.Item 1.