Financial Statements.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased 10.6% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market increased from 12.0% to 12.4% due to changes in customer mix.The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.Item 1.