fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.


item2.txt
TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
Our second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 9.3% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 11.0% and an increase in revenue in the retail segment of 5.9%, as compared to the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Revenue decreased in our network systems category by 22.7%, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our second quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.9%, compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Gross margin for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 19.8% and 20.6% respectively.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income decreased by 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased by 33.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 9.3% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 44.7% and revenues in the retail market increased by 5.9%.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


