fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).


item1.txt
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.
The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.


item2.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our 2018 Annual Report.
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this data.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch has provided committed financing in connection with the Merger.
We have incurred costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s totaling $1.8 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
Refer to Note 7 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the interim impairment test.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Total assets sold were $3.7, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3 in fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



