fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks, and rewards transfer.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.


item2.txt
Item 2.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less net capital expenditures.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first six months of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt



