fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
As such, $15.5 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first six months of fiscal 2017.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Forward-Looking Statements.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with Energizer Holdings, Inc. ("Energizer") or Energizer’s inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Other Information.


part2.txt
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.


