fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results since the acquisition date.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.


item2.txt
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data.
Forward-Looking Statements.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.
•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


