As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Brazil, Canada, and London for support, operations and sales offices.
The Company also leases facilities all over the world, while owning five facilities in India.
The Indian facilities provide software development and other technical and business process outsourcing services.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 67.8% and 53.9% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months.
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
During the first three months of 2019, the United States' revenues decreased $3.8 million primarily due to a combination of decreased professional services and a decrease of third party administrator services.
Latin America's revenues decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to decreased professional services combined with a $646 thousand decrease due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Australia's revenues decreased by $862 thousand primarily due to a changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
India's revenue increased $40.9 million due to $43.8 million of revenues associated with the acquisitions of Centrum (acquired April 2018), Smartclass (acquired April 2018), Indus (acquired July 2018), Mercury acquired July 2018), Leisure (acquired July 2018), Miles (acquired August 2018), Routier (acquired October 2018), Business Travels (acquired October 2018), Wahh Taxis (acquired October 2018), Pearl (acquired December 2018), Weizmann (acquired December 2018), Zillious (acquired January 2019), and Essel (acquired January 2019).
Product development expenses increased $2.8 million or 33% to $11.2 million during the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $8.4 million during the first quarter of 2018.
This increase is primarily due to costs associated with the operations of the recent acquisition of Indus and Miles.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.1 million or 53%, to $6.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $4.0 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with our India operations, and with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the travel and foreign exchange sectors.
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $1.9 million or 10% to $21.4 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $19.5 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions
in the travel, foreign exchange, e-learning and software solutions sectors offset by a $(15.4) million reduction of acquisition earnout accrual for itzCash.
Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $1.3 million or 45% to $4.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $2.8 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2019 and 2018 India acquisitions.
Interest income increased $229 thousand or 189% to $350 thousand in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $121 thousand in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to an increase in deposits held in interest bearing accounts.
Interest expense increased $5.0 million or 103%, to $9.8 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $4.8 million in the first quarter of 2018.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 80% to $725.6 million during Q1 2019 from $402.4 million during Q1 of 2018, as well as an increase in the underlying interest rate which increased to 5.0% for Q1 2019 versus 4.3% for Q1 2018.
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 in the amount of $255 thousand consists of $58 thousand of gains realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $313 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
The Company recorded net income tax benefit of $1.08 million (4.52%) during the three months ended March 31, 2019 which included gross tax benefit of $4.2 million from certain discrete items related to deferred tax true-up related to tax carrying value of assets versus carrying value as per the books.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is $3.08 million (12.84%).
The Company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 8% to 9%.
The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $77.0 million and $147.8 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The $3.4 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
 Our current ratio increased to 1.46 at March 31, 2019 from 1.35 at December 31, 2018 while our working capital position slightly increased to $110.4 million at March 31, 2019 from $110.0 million at the end of 2018.
Our short-term liquidity has primarily increased due to a decrease in other current liabilities and earnout contingencies, partially offset by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
The Company's days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") was 103 days at March 31, 2019 down 13 days from 116 days at December 31, 2018.
The decrease is primarily due to the timing of transaction settlements in our Weizmann division.
We believe that Ebix's ability to generate sustainable and robust cash flows from operations will enable the Company to continue to fund its current liabilities from current assets including available cash balances for the foreseeable future.
The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
The Company looks to acquire businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire the assets of India based Essel Forex for approximately $7.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues.
Ebix will be funding the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves.
Essel Forex has been one of the five largest Foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired an 80% controlling stake in India based Zillious for $10.1 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $2.2 million based on earned revenues.
Zillious is an on-demand SaaS travel technology solution, with market leadership in the corporate travel segment in India.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million.
Ebix also made a time bound public offer to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares for approximately $21.1 million to public shareholders.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name ‘Sastiticket’, ranging from domestic and international ticketing, incentives travel, leisure products, luxury holidays, and travel documentation for $3.4 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, which has brought in operational synergies and certain redundancies for the acquired operations.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to bring in operational synergies and wider country wide footprint.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and same has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the wholesale travel and consolidation business.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Miles, a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Leisure for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire Indus, a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Centrum, a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million.
This acquisition was funded June 2018.
Centrum was integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
Effective February 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Transcorp for upfront cash consideration in the amount of $7.25 million, of which $6.55 million was funded with cash and $700 thousand assumed in liabilities.
Ebix is consolidating this recent acquisition into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations which will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the three-month period consisted of net income of $25.7 million, net of $313 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $4.1 million of depreciation and amortization, $(667) thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $576 thousand of non-cash share-based compensation, $1.7 million of right-of-use assets amortization, and $596 thousand of amortization of capitalized software development costs and $21.6 million of working capital requirements primarily due to a $19.7 million accrual for a securities litigation settlement and decreased outstanding trade accounts receivable and other assets.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $15.4 million of non-cash gains recognized upon the reduction in acquisition earnout contingent liabilities.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 the Company made $4.1 million of tax payments.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the three month period consisted of net income of $26.2 million, net of $419 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $2.8 million of depreciation and amortization, $248 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $753 thousand of non-cash share-based compensation, and $525 thousand of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(5.5) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable and other assets and a decrease in contract liabilities.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made $6.8 million of tax payments including $2.5 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Partially offsetting these inflows were $6.6 million used for the acquisition of Transcorp, $531 thousand for the expansion of our product development facilities in India and the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia, and $622 thousand for software development costs that were capitalized.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used by financing activities was $481 thousand which consisted of $13.5 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions, $2.9 million net proceeds from short term third party loans as part of its EbixCash operations, and $1.1 million net provided by the EbixCash overdraft facility in India.
Partially offsetting the cash inflows were $2.3 million to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $11.0 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $3.8 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $21.8 million which consisted of $124.3 million provided by the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $20.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions, $745 thousand provided by the EbixCash overdraft facility in India.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow were $120.8 million used as part of the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank and $2.4 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder.
At March 31, 2019 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.5 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this Credit Agreement, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.3 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.2 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement of which $575 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.7 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, $13.5 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $434.4 million and $438.0 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $287.5 million of which $15.1 million is due within the next twelve months, with $3.77 million payments having been made during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
This term loan also carried an interest rate of 5.00% .
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $15.1 million and $272.4 million respectively at March 31, 2019.
For a presentation regarding material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the Company's contractual obligations please refer to Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies related to revenue recognition as discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (our “ 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K”).
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value.
We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30th of each year.
During the year ended December 31, 2018 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
liabilities and are reported as such on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, these aggregate contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities were reduced by $15.4 million and zero, respectively, due to re-measurements based on the then assessed fair value and changes in anticipated future revenue levels.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, these reductions to the contingent accrued earn-out liabilities resulted in a corresponding reduction of $15.4 million and zero, respectively to general and administrative expenses as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and a reduction of zero and zero, respectively to goodwill as reported in the enclosed Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2019, the total of these contingent liabilities was $12.5 million.
Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
