Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
As of September 30, 2018 the $18.3 million of consideration for the Miles acquisition was included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018.
 During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 there were 1,638 shares, totaling $147 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Restricted Cash- As part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
As of September 30, 2018 there is $2.5 million included in other long-term assets of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
During the first nine months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $3.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense decreased by $625 thousand during the first nine months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").
Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for companies to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net), which amends the principal-versus-agent implementation guidance and in April 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which amends the guidance in those areas in the new revenue recognition standard.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider ("ASP") platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, international and domestic money transfers, foreign exchange, travel related transactions and general purpose reloadable cards.
Transaction-based fees are recognized at the completion of the transaction.
The Company adopted Topic 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applying the new standard to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018.
Therefore, the comparative financial information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The adoption resulted in a decrease to retained earnings of $11.6 million for the cumulative effect of applying the Topic 606.
 in the third quarter of 2018 was $60.3 million.
Under our treatment prior to implementing Topic 606, these costs were expensed as incurred.
The Company records deferred revenue when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services.
This portion is recognized as the related performance obligation is fulfilled (generally less than one year).
The remaining portion of the deferred revenue balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time.
This portion is recognized over the expected useful life of the customizations.
The adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to deferred revenue, which in turn generated an additional deferred tax asset that increased the Company’s net deferred tax asset position.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $111.0 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $42.2 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.4 million).
The unbilled receivables pertain to certain projects for which the timing of billing is tied to contractual milestones.
The Company adheres to such contractually stated performance milestones and accordingly issues invoices to customers as per contract billing schedules.
The Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $524 thousand and $2.6 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and $385 thousand and $1.1 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable are written off against the allowance account when the Company has exhausted all reasonable collection efforts.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, $332 thousand and $513 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off.
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of certain acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value.
We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
The fair value of all three of these reporting units were found to be greater than their carrying value and,therefore, step-two of the quantitative testing process described above became unnecessary because no impairment was indicated.
In specific regards to the RCS reporting unit, its assessed fair value was $158.0 million which was $42.4 million or 36.7% in excess of its $115.6 million carrying value.
Key assumptions used in the fair value determination were annual revenue growth of 7.5% to 12.5% and discount rate of 16%.
As of September 30, 2017 there was $78.2 million of goodwill assigned to the RCS reporting unit.
During the year ended December 31, 2017 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017 are reflected in the following table.
Amortization expense recognized in connection with acquired intangible assets was $1.6 million and $5.2 million for the
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
In August 2018 the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.
ASU 2018-13 is intended to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
In June 2018 the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
In January 2017 the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.
To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the FASB eliminated Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities).
Instead, under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
ASU 2017-01 is effective for fiscal 2019 with early adoption permitted.
In November 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flow (Topic 230) Restricted Cash (A Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force) which amends ASC 230 to add or clarify guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments in this ASU require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company held zero and $11.2 million, respectively, in "Restricted cash" and $2.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively, in "Other long-term assets" of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The amendments eliminate the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory.
The amendments are effective for public business entities for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods.
The amendments should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.
The Company adopted the new guidance on January 1, 2018 with no material impact to its consolidated financial statements.
This new accounting guidance is intended to improve financial reporting about leasing transactions.
The ASU affects all companies and other organizations that lease assets such as real estate, airplanes, and manufacturing equipment.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets referred to as “Lessees” to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
An organization is to provide disclosures designed to enable users of financial statements to understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike current GAAP which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet the new ASU will require both types of leases (i.e., operating and capital) to be recognized on the balance sheet.
The FASB lessee accounting model will continue to account for both types of leases.
The capital lease will be accounted for in substantially the same manner as capital leases are accounted for under existing GAAP.
For operating leases there will have to be the recognition of a lease liability and a lease asset for all such leases greater than one year in term.
See Note 5 for the Company’s current lease commitments.
The Company is evaluating the impact that this new leasing ASU will have on its financial statements.
 The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions (which primarily targets businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services), in combination with organic growth initiatives, as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
Effective August 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Miles Software ("Miles"), a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Leisure Corp ("Leisure") for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market.
Mercury’s Forex business will be integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Indus Software Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. ("Indus"), a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million.
This acquisition was funded June 2018.
Centrum will be tightly integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective November 1, 2017 Ebix acquired Via.com ("Via"), a recognized leader in the travel space in India and an Omni-channel online travel and assisted e-commerce exchange.
Effective October 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Wall Street, an inward international remittance service provider in India, along with the acquisition of its subsidiary company Goldman Securities Limited for upfront cash consideration in the amount $7.4 million.
On August 18, 2017 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire MTSS Business of YouFirst Money Express Private Limited ("YouFirst") for upfront cash consideration in the amount $10.2 million.
The acquisition, effective September 1, 2017, was funded in October following the securing of requisite approvals for the closing.
Effective June 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the assets of beBetter Health, Inc., ("beBetter"), a technology enabled corporate wellness provider that provides end-to-end wellness solutions offering a variety of tools and programs, including interactive platforms, health screening, coaching, tobacco cessation, weight and stress management, health information, and numerous other products and services.
Effective April 1, 2017 Ebix entered into a joint venture with India-based Essel Group, while acquiring an 80% stake in ItzCash Card Limited ("ItzCash"), India’s leading payment solutions exchange.
Under the terms of the agreement, ItzCash was valued at a total enterprise value of approximately $150 million.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
During the third quarter of 2018 $3.8 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments which was previously being held in escrow accounts for the twelve-month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieved the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, was paid.
exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
As discussed in more detail in Note 1, these contingent consideration liabilities are recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are remeasured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these aggregate contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities were reduced by $14.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, due to remeasurements based on the then assessed fair value and changes in anticipated future revenue levels.
In the first nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 these reductions to the contingent accrued earn-out liabilities resulted in a corresponding reduction of $645 thousand and $164 thousand, respectively to general and administrative expenses as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and a reduction of $13.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively to goodwill as reported in the enclosed Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Consideration paid by the Company for the businesses it purchases is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition.
The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
Recognized goodwill pertains to the value of the expected synergies to be derived from combining the operations of the businesses we acquire including the value of the acquired workforce.
The aggregated unaudited pro forma financial information pertaining to all of the Company's acquisitions that have an impact on the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, which includes the acquisitions of the ItzCash (acquired April 2017), beBetter (acquired June 2017), YouFirst (acquired September 2017), Wall Street (acquired October 2017), Paul Merchants (acquired November 2017), Via (acquired November 2017), Transcorp (acquired February 2018), Centrum (acquired April 2018), Smartclass (acquired April 2018), Indus (acquired July 2018), Mercury acquired July 2018), Leisure (acquired July 2018), and Miles (acquired August 2018) and as presented in the table below is provided for informational purposes only and is not a projection of the Company's expected results of operations for any future period.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $35.8 million or 39% to $128.6 million as compared to $92.8 million during the same period in 2017.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $102.2 million or 39% to $361.5 million as compared to $259.3 million during the same period in 2017.
 With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the above pro forma financial information table, combined revenues decreased 8.5% and 5.7% for the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018, respectively, versus the same periods in 2017.
since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being April 2017 for Itzcash, June 2017 for beBetter, September 2017 for YouFirst, October 2017 for Wall Street, November 2017 for Paul Merchants, November 2017 for Via, February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, and August 2018 for Miles.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
On April 9, 2018 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the to the Regions Secured Credit Facility increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.
On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement").
The Sixth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to $650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank of the West to the Banking Syndicate, which diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 million.
The new credit facility also allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $175 million.
$20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
On October 19, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the Company’s making certain restricted payments in excess of those permitted under the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Third Amendment also loosened the limitations on the restricted payment covenant under the Credit Agreement.
On June 17, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets, LLC, and TD Securities (USA) as joint Lead Arrangers for the syndicate of lenders (the “Regions Secured Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement now consists of a five-year revolving credit component in the amount of $275 million, and a five-year term loan component in the amount of $125 million, with repayments due in the amount $3.13 million due each quarter, starting September 30, 2016.
The Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature, which if exercised and approved by all credit parties, would expand the total borrowing capacity under the syndicated credit facility to $500 million.
As of September 30, 2018 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.1 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this credit facility, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.1 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.0 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement of which $449 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.5 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $246.0 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $288.8 million and $399.7 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2018, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $243.8 million of which $12.5 million is due within the next twelve months, with $6.25 million payments having been made during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $12.5 million and $231.3 million respectively at September 30, 2018.
On August 9, 2018, the Court denied Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss the Supplement under Court of Chancery Rule 23.1, and granted in part and denied in part Defendants’ motion under Court of Chancery Rule 12(b)(6).
On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the FAC to assert claims relating to Ebix’s July 16, 2018 proxy statement.
On August 15, 2018, during the telephonic pretrial conference, the Court denied that motion.
The parties then filed pre-trial briefs, and a trial was held on the remaining claims on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.
The parties are currently conducting post-trial briefing, with a hearing scheduled for January 2019.
The Company denies any liability and intends to defend the action vigorously.
Lease Commitments—The Company leases office space under non-cancelable operating leases with expiration dates ranging through 2029, with various renewal options.
There were multiple assets under various individual capital leases at September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Rental expense for office facilities and certain equipment subject to operating leases for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $14.7 million and $4.3 million (net of a $(948) thousand purchase accounting adjustment), respectively.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
As of September 30, 2018, the amount accrued on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet for the self-insured component of the Company’s employee health insurance was $282 thousand.
The maximum potential estimated cumulative liability for the annual contract period, which ends in September 2019, was $2.8 million.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.68 million (5.42%) and $6.03 million (6.64%), respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 which included discrete items for additions to the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 is $1.65 million (5.33%) and $5.94 million (6.54%), respectively.
The Company expects its full year tax rate before discrete items to be approximately 6.54%.
ASU 2018-05 allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.
During 2015, the Company secured an additional tax holiday in India until the year 2020 to support certain portions of its expanding operations there.
During the first nine months of 2018 the United States' revenues decreased $11.0 million primarily due to a combination of decreased professional services and a decrease of third party administrator services.
India's revenue increased $102.5 million due to $103.8 million of revenues associated with the acquisitions
of ItzCash (Q2 2017), YouFirst (Q3 2017), Wall Street (Q4 2017), Paul Merchants (Q4 2017), Via (Q4 2017), Transcorp (Q1 2018), Centrum (Q2 2018), Smartclass (Q2 2018), Indus (Q3 2018), Mercury (Q3 2018), Leisure (Q3 2018), and Miles (Q3 2018).
Partially offsetting this was a $(900) thousand decrease in e-governance contracts.
Increases in Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore and United Arab Emirates are due to the November 2017 acquisition of Via (Q4 2017).
In the geographical information table above the significant changes to long-lived assets from September 30, 2017 to September 30, 2018 were comprised of an increase in the United States of $2.1 million primarily due to capitalized continuing medical education product costs and the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia.
A decrease occurred in Latin America of $5.6 million primarily due to a 22.0% weakening of the Brazilian Real versus the U.S. Dollar which caused a $5.2 million decrease in the translation of long-lived assets plus continued amortization of intangible assets.
An increase in India of $293.5 million is primarily due to a $319.5 million increase associated with the acquisitions of Wall Street (Q4 2017), Paul Merchants (Q4 2017), Via (Q4 2017), Transcorp (Q1 2018), Centrum (Q2 2018), Smartclass (Q2 2018), Indus (Q3 2018), Mercury (Q3 2018), Leisure (Q3 2018), and Miles (Q3 2018), partially offset for purchase accounting adjustments made for ItzCash (Q2 2017) acquisition.
The Europe increase of $2.2 million is primarily due to an increase in deferred tax assets primarily due to the release of valuation allowances of operating loss carryforwards, partially offset by the amortization of intangible assets and capitalized software development costs.
Under the terms of the agreement, Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
Effective January 2, 2018 Paul Merchants acquired a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India (comprised of YouFirst, Wall Street , Paul Merchants, and Transcorp) for cash consideration of $5.0 million.
As part of this agreement Ebix retains an irrevocable option to reacquire 10% of the equity interest after one year at a predetermined price which is included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under the terms of the agreement, ItzCash was valued at a total enterprise value of approximately $150 million.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
During the third quarter of 2018 $3.8 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments which was previously being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieved the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, was paid.
Effective February 7, 2016 Ebix and Vayam Technologies Ltd ("Vayam") formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture.
Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity.
This joint venture was established to promote and market an administrative data exchange for health and pet insurance lines of business nationally.
Ebix paid $6.0 million and contributed a license to use certain CurePet software and systems valued by the EbixHealth JV at $2.0 million, for its initial 40% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV.
IHC contributed all if its shares in its existing third party administrator operations (IHC Health Solutions, Inc.), valued by the EbixHealth JV at $12.0 million for its 60% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV, and received a special distribution of $6.0 million.
Effective July 1, 2016 Ebix and IHC jointly executed a Call Notice agreement, whereby Ebix purchased additional common units in the EbixHealth JV from IHC constituting eleven percent (11%) of the EbixHealth JV for $2.0 million cash which resulted in Ebix holding an aggregate fifty-one percent (51%) of the EbixHealth JV.
Commensurate with additional equity stake in the joint venture and a new contemporaneous valuation of the business the Company realized a $1.2 million gain on its previously carried 40% equity interest in the EbixHealth JV.
Beginning July 1, 2016 Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the EbixHealth JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the IHC minority, non-controlling, 49% interest in the joint venture's net income and equity, and thereby reflecting Ebix's net resulting 51% interest in the EbixHealth JV profits or losses.
Furthermore, as a related party, IHC also has been and continues to be a customer of Ebix, and during the three and nine months ending September 30, 2018 the Company recognized zero and zero revenue from IHC respectively, and as of September 30, 2018 IHC had $23 thousand of accounts receivable with Ebix.
In accordance with the relevant authoritative accounting literature the Company has capitalized certain software and product related development costs associated with both the Company’s continuing medical education service offerings, and the Company’s development of its property and casualty underwriting insurance data exchange platform servicing the London markets.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, the Company capitalized $3.6 million and $2.1 million of such development costs.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, a total of $10.0 million and $8.5 million, respectively, of remaining unamortized development costs are reported on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
The Company is potentially subject to concentrations of credit risk in its accounts receivable.
unexpected loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The Company had one customer whose accounts receivable balances individually represented 10% or more of the Company’s total accounts receivable.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture.
Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity.
Vayam is also a customer of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV, and during the three months ending September 30, 2018 and 2017 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $2.6 million and $6.0 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively.
During the nine months ending September 30, 2018 and 2017 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $12.8 million and $16.5 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively and as of September 30, 2018 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV had $35.1 million of accounts receivable with Vayam.
Subsequent to September 30, 2018 and through November 9, 2018 the Company has re-purchased an additional 243,651 shares of its outstanding common stock for aggregate cash consideration in the amount of $14.0 million and at an average rate of $57.60 per share.
On October 23, 2018 the Company announced that one of its India-based EbixCash subsidiaries has acquired a 67 percent stake in Routier, a Delhi-based B2B Marketplace for Trucking Logistics for approximately $400 thousand.
Routier is pioneering a cloud based technology to change the way people move and receive inland goods in India.
On October 22, 2018 Company announced that it decided to further invest in the growth of its B2B business by acquiring the assets of travel company Business Travels Private Limited for approximately $1.1 million.
Ebix is holding a special meeting of shareholders on November 16, 2018 to approve an amendment to the Company’s certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized common shares.
The increase is required to effect a five-for-one split of the Company’s common stock which has been approved by Ebix’s Board of Directors, subject to shareholder approval of the amendment.
Provided shareholders approve the amendment, the Company plans to set a record date for the stock split, and thereafter shareholders of record on such date will receive four additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock held on the record date.
