Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”). Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share. Although the SARs were not granted under the 2010 Plan, the April SAR Agreement incorporates certain provisions of the 2010 Plan, including the provisions requiring equitable adjustment of the number of SARs and the base price in connection with certain corporate events (including stock splits). Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event. All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.
On July 17, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motions for summary judgment on all remaining counts of the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Court granted summary judgment as to all defendants on Counts I, IV, V, VI, VII, and X and denied summary judgment as to Counts II and III. The Court granted summary judgment as to certain defendants on Count IX, and granted in part and denied in part Count IX with respect to 
the Firm Clients. On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the Fourth Amended Complaint related to certain disclosures issued in connection with the Company’s 2018 annual meeting, which the Court denied at a pretrial conference held on August 15, 2018. On August 9, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued a bench ruling granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the Supplement. A three-day trial on all remaining claims was held on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.
The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 
The Settlement was fully paid on May 2, 2019.
Effective February 6, 2017 the Company's Board of Directors unanimously approved an additional authorized share repurchase plan of $150.0 million. The Board directed that the repurchases be funded with available cash balances and cash generated by the Company's operating activities. Under certain circumstances the aggregate amount of repurchases of the Company's equity shares may be limited by the terms and underlying financial covenants regarding the Company's commercial
The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
