As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 231,500 physical distribution outlets in many ASEAN countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic and international money remittance, travel, pre-paid and gift cards, utility payments, etc., in emerging countries such as India.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Dubai, and India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 61.2% and 39.5% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but this is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $37.2 million or 43%, to $124.6 million as compared to $87.4 million during the second quarter of 2017.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the Company's acquisitions of Centrum, Smartclass, Via and Ebix Money.
 With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, combined revenues increased 0.51% for the three months ending June 30, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.
The 2018 and 2017 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2017, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for three months ended June 30, 2018 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being April 2017 for Itzcash, June 2017 for beBetter, September 2017 for YouFirst, October 2017 for WallStreet, November 2017 for Paul Merchants, November 2017 for Via, February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum and April 2018 for Smartclass.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Product development expenses slightly increased to $8.7 million during the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $8.4 million during the second quarter of 2017.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $681 thousand or 16%, to $4.8 million in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $4.1 million in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to promotional activities in India.
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $12.1 million or 83% to $26.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $14.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to costs associated with the business acquisitions of Centrum, SmartClass, Via and Ebix Money.
Amortization and depreciation expenses decreased $225 thousand or 8% to $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $2.8 million in the second quarter of 2017.
Interest income decreased $380 thousand or 82% to $85 thousand in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $465 thousand in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to interest earned from our EbixCash Financial exchanges included in operating revenue in 2018.
Interest expense increased $2.7 million or 91%, to $5.8 million in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $3.0 million in the second quarter of 2017.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 67% to $519.2 million during Q2 2018 from $310.1 million during Q2 of 2017, as well as an increase in the underlying interest rate which increased to 4.28% for Q2 2018 versus 3.56% for Q2 2017.
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 in the amount of $1.36 million consists of $933 thousand of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $424 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $2.22 million (7.10%) during the three months ended June 30, 2018 which included discrete items for additions to the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the three months ended June 30, 2018 is $2.19 million (7.01%).
The Company expects its full year tax rate before discrete items to be approximately 7.17%.
Any adjustment of the Company’s provisional tax expense will be reflected as a change in estimate in its results in the period in which the change in estimate is made in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 issued March 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $66.4 million or 40%, to $232.9 million as compared to $166.5 million during the same period in 2017.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the Company's acquisitions of Centrum, ItzCash, Via, Ebix Money and SmartClass.
International revenue accounted for 57.8% and 36.9% of the Company’s total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, combined revenues decreased 2.1% for the six months ending June 30, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.
•2018 and 2017 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Product development expenses increased $338 thousand or 2%, to $17.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $16.8 million during the same period in 2017.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $342 thousand or 4%, to $8.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $8.5 million during the same period in 2017 primarily due to promotional activities in India.
Amortization and depreciation expenses decreased $273 thousand or 5% to $5.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $5.6 million during the same period in 2017.
Interest income decreased $1.0 million or 83% to $206 thousand during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $1.2 million during the same period in 2017 primarily due to interest earned from our EbixCash Financial exchanges included in operating revenue in 2018.
Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 57% to $461.1 million during Q2 2018 from $294.6 million
during Q2 of 2017, as well as an increase in the underlying average interest rate which increased to an average of 4.25% during six months ending June 30, 2018 versus 3.31% for the same six month period in 2017.
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the six months ended June 30, 2018 in the amount of $2.0 million consists of $1.2 million of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $843 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $4.35 million (7.26%) during the six months ended June 30, 2018 which included discrete items for additions to the reserve for uncertain tax positions.
The Company expects its full year tax rate before discrete items to be approximately 7.17%.
Any adjustment of the Company’s provisional tax expense will be reflected as a change in estimate in its results in the period in which the change in estimate is made in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 issued March 2018.
The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
We believe that anticipated cash flows provided by our operating activities, together with current cash and cash equivalent balances, access to our credit facilities, and access to the capital markets, if required and available, will be sufficient to meet our projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, although any projections of future cash needs, cash flows, and the condition of the capital markets in general, as to the availability of debt and equity financing, are subject to substantial uncertainty.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $113.4 million and $63.9 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The $4.0 million of restricted cash on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018 consists of the ItzCash acquisition $4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The $8.0 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
 Our current ratio slightly decreased to 1.69 at June 30, 2018 from 1.72 at December 31, 2017 while our working capital position increased to $134.2 million at June 30, 2018 from $106.0 million at the end of 2017.
Our short-term liquidity has primarily increased due to increased cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables.
The Company's days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") was 105 days at June 30, 2018 up 6 days from 99 days at March 31, 2018.
The increase is primarily due to the timing of credit card transaction settlements in our Via.com division and certain e-governance contracts that have longer payment terms.
We believe that Ebix's ability to generate sustainable and robust cash flows from operations will enable the Company to continue to fund its current liabilities from current assets including available cash balances for the foreseeable future.
The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
The Company looks to acquire businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services.
Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million.
This acquisition was funded June 2018.
Centrum will be tightly integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective February 1, 2018 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Transcorp for upfront cash consideration in the amount of $7.25 million, of which $6.55 million was funded with cash and $700 thousand assumed in liabilities.
this recent acquisition into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations which will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the Transcorp acquisition remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the Via acquisition remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the Paul Merchants acquisition remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective October 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the MTSS Business of Wall Street, an inward international remittance service provider in India, along with the acquisition of its subsidiary company Goldman Securities Limited for upfront cash consideration in the amount $7.4 million.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the Wall Street acquisition remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
On August 18, 2017 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire MTSS Business of YouFirst Money Express Private Limited ("YouFirst") for upfront cash consideration in the amount $10.2 million.
The acquisition, effective September 1, 2017, was funded in October following the securing of requisite approvals for the closing.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the YouFirst acquisition remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective June 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the assets of beBetter a technology enabled corporate wellness provider that provides end-to-end wellness solutions offering a variety of tools and programs, including interactive platforms, health screening, coaching, tobacco cessation, weight and stress management, health information, and numerous other products and services.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
$4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $19.4 million as of June 30, 2018.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the ItzCash acquisition remains preliminary.
million is included in current liabilities in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As of December 31, 2017 the total of these contingent liabilities was $37.1 million, of which $33.1 million was reported in long-term liabilities, and $4.0 million was included in current liabilities in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $39.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the six month period consisted of net income of $55.4 million, net of $1.3 million of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $5.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $139 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $1.5 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $1.1 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 the Company made $8.4 million of tax payments including $2.5 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $31.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the six month period consisted of net income of $49.9 million, net of $365 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $5.6 million of depreciation and amortization, $659 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $1.2 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $790 thousand of amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(26.4) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable combined with a reduction in accounts payable and accrued operating and payroll expenses.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017 the Company made $8.0 million of tax payments including $4.9 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $177.9 million, and consisted of $166.0 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Centrum, $7.6 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of SmartClass, $6.6 million used for the acquisition of Transcorp, $1.5 million for the expansion of our product development facilities in India and the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia, and $2.0 million for software development costs that were capitalized.
Partially offsetting these outflows was $5.0 million received from Paul Merchants for a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India and, $725 thousand from the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $79.9 million, and consisted of $1.0 million used for the acquisition of beBetter, $70.2 million for the acquisition of ItzCash (net of cash acquired), $4.0 million to fund an escrow account for possible future contingent earn-out payments, $1.9 million for the expansion of our product development facilities in India, $2.9 million for the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia, $1.3 million for software development costs that were capitalized, and $1.6 million for the net purchase of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 net cash provided by financing activities was $193.7 million which consisted of $124.3 million provided by the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $205.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow were $120.8 million used as part of the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, $4.7 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $4.6 million net payments of the EbixCash overdraft facility in India, and $3.1 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017 net cash provided by financing activities was $3.0 million which consisted of $60.0 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions.
Partially offsetting this cash inflow was $45.7 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $4.8 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholders, and $6.25 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement").
The Sixth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to $650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank of the West to the Banking Syndicate, which diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 million.
The new credit facility, also, allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
On June 17, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets, LLC, and TD Securities (USA) as joint Lead Arrangers for the syndicate of lenders (the “Regions Secured Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature, which if exercised and approved by all credit parties, would expand the total borrowing capacity under the syndicated credit facility to $500 million.
As of June 30, 2018 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.4 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this credit facility, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement.
In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.3 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.1 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement of which $449 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.6 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, $185.0 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility.
The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $246.8 million and $358.7 million, respectively.
At June 30, 2018, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $246.9 million of which $12.5 million is due within the next twelve months, with $3.13 million payments having been made during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $12.5 million and $234.4 million respectively at June 30, 2018.
For a presentation regarding material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the Company's contractual obligations please refer to Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
Under Topic 606, revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
• recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
For contracts that contain multiple deliverables, we analyze the revenue arrangements in accordance with the relevant technical accounting guidance, which provides criteria governing how to determine whether goods or services that are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement should be considered as separate performance obligations for the purpose of revenue recognition.
These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.
Financial exchange revenue consists largely of transaction-based fees and fees from corporate and retail gift vouchers.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards.
Transaction-based fees are recognized at the completion of the transaction.
Gift voucher revenue is recognized at full purchase value at time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses.
Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
We determine the fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value.
We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30th of each year.
During the year ended December 31, 2017 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
 as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and a reduction of $13.7 million and three million ninety-six thousand, respectively to goodwill as reported in the enclosed Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, the total of these contingent liabilities was $21.6 million.
Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.
The Board directed that the repurchases be funded with available cash balances and cash generated by the Company's operating activities.
Under certain circumstances the aggregate amount of repurchases of the Company's equity shares may be limited by the terms and underlying financial covenants regarding the Company's commercial bank financing facility.
There were no share repurchases during the three months ended June 30, 2018 (30,000 shares totaling $2.2 million of March 2018 share repurchases were not settled until April 2018) and the maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the current program is $131.6 million.
