We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness.
•Reviewing and revising internal procedures surrounding valuation accounting, including the use of independent third party resources, internal review and documentation processes.
On February 21, 2018, Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
The Sixth Amendment amends the Regions Credit Facility by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to$650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
Regions Bank continued to lead the banking group while serving as the administrative and collateral agent.
PNC Bank and BMO Harris Bank were added as co syndication agents, BBVA Compass and Fifth Third Bank as co documentation agent, while Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets and BMO Harris Bank acted as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.
The new credit facility has the following key components; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400
The new credit facility, also, allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.
The Regions Secured Credit Facility carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 3.88%.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to$175 million.
$20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
