fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Also impacting deferred revenue was a decrease of $0.6 million related to previous billings which no longer required deferred recognition as of the date of adoption.
Commissions and contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of software as a service arrangements are now capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the customer.
Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
The guidance was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017, and will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring following adoption.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.


item2.txt
• TruBridge focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of the Rycan revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
We believe that the addition of HHI and its clients and products has enhanced and will continue to enhance our ability to grow our business and compete in the markets that we serve.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
Also, during the first quarter of 2017, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering.
We have experienced a substantial increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Unlike our historical perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


