fls.txt



item1.txt
The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million).
During the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $134 thousand and $1.0 million, respectively.
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 are reflected in the following table.
The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates.
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities).
The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
Essel Forex has been one of the five largest Foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major Currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $721 thousand as of March 31, 2019.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $2.2 million as of March 31, 2019.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million (the $64.6 million reported on the cash flows from investing activities also includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million).


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months.
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.


item3.txt
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 the net change in the cumulative foreign currency translation account, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity, were unrealized gains (losses) of $3.5 million and $(4.8) million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”).


