Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 there were 662 shares, totaling $36 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Description of Business— Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, and outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $2.0 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $7.6 million and $6.2 million in the nine months ended 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3. and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses.As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 69.4% and 62.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the table above for the three months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $3.8 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.