Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Restricted Cash- As part of the ItzCash Card Limited ("ItzCash") acquisition, $4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
Additionally, as part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
Effective January 1, 2018 Subtopic 340-40 replaced that guidance to require the costs of direct-response advertising to be expensed as they are incurred or the first time the advertising takes place.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense increased by $217 thousand during the first three months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, “Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net),” which amends the principal-versus-agent implementation guidance and in April 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, “Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing,” which amends the guidance in those areas in the new revenue recognition standard.
For contracts that contain multiple deliverables, we analyze the revenue arrangements in accordance with the relevant technical accounting guidance, which provides criteria governing how to determine whether goods or services that are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement should be considered as separate performance obligations for the purpose of revenue recognition.As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $29.1 million or 37%, to $108.2 million as compared to $79.1 million during the first quarter of 2017. of the Company's acquisitions of Via, YouFirst and ItzCash.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $29.1 million or 37% to $108.2 million as compared to $79.1 million during the same period in 2017.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the above pro forma financial information table, combined revenues decreased 2.7% for the three months ending March 31, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.