fls.txt



item1.txt
The acquisition was funded through a combination of SAIC common stock and additional borrowings.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
The Company is party to fixed interest rate swap instruments that are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges to manage risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on a portion of the Company’s floating rate debt.
In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations approximated its fair value.
U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA, the Defense Contract Management Agency and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards.
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
Item 1A.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $79.04 per award.
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
These operating leases are expected to commence in fiscal 2020 and have a weighted-average lease term of approximately 6 years.


item2.txt
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 2, 2019 increased to 8.4% of revenues from 7.0% of revenues for the prior year, driven by the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the six months ended August 2, 2019 and the comparable prior year period.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.7% in the prior year quarter to 88.6%, due to the Engility acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).
However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time.
We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions.
Total backlog at the end of the second quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.
Other companies may define similar measures differently.
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 4.
Charles A. Mathis


