fls.txt



item1.txt
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Fulfillment costs amortized during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018 were not material.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
We record a contract asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability when cash is received in advance of recognizing revenue.
The Company is continuing to negotiate with the Marine Corps and its vendors to minimize the impact of the stop-work order to the Company’s results of operations.
During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer, contract-type and prime vs. subcontractor to the federal government.
In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption.
As of August 3, 2018, the balance of unrecognized tax benefits included liabilities for uncertainty in income taxes of $8 million; $7 million of which is classified as other long-term liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets and $1 million of which is classified as a reduction to the corresponding deferred tax asset and is presented in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The net impact to opening retained earnings from these changes as a result of the adoption was $3 million.
The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion.
Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.
Recognizing revenue on long-term contracts involves significant estimates and judgments.


item2.txt
Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($57 million).
Many of our contracts include forms of variable consideration such as reimbursable costs, award and incentive fees, usage-based pricing, service-level penalties, performance bonuses, and other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts.
We evaluate the nature of the contract and the services provided when determining the accounting method utilized for each contract.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Charles A. Mathis


part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.
We have entered into a debt commitment letter pursuant to which Citigroup Global Markets Inc. has committed to provide us with a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion Term Loan B structured as an incremental facility under our existing credit agreement.


