fls.txt



item1.txt
particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
Remaining performance obligations exclude any variable consideration that is allocated entirely to unsatisfied performance obligations on our supply chain contracts.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate.
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the three months ended May 3, 2019.
The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation.
particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The $6 million of deferred gains in accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into interest expense over the original contractual term of the interest rate swaps, which has a maturity date of May 7, 2020.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V.
Goodwill represents intellectual capital and an acquired assembled work force.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


item2.txt
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
Operating Income.
These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities.
Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus.
We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years.
There have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies, other than our accounting policy on leases, during the three months ended May 3, 2019 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. We revised our accounting policy on leases in conjunction with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update No.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Item 5.


