fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has commenced the assessment phase of the project and is evaluating the impact on its financial statements from the future adoption of the standard.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after May 4, 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company provides technical, engineering and enterprise IT services under long-term service arrangements primarily with the U.S. government including subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government.
Any additional amounts which may be determined to be owed for periods prior to the separation will be allocated to former Parent and the Company in proportions determined in accordance with the Distribution Agreement.
The Company has commenced the assessment phase of the project and is evaluating the impact on its financial statements from the future adoption of the standard.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed.
Billed and billable receivables are rights to consideration which are unconditional other than to the passage of time.
Item 1A.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
As of May 4, 2018, the Company has recorded a total liability of $42 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has commenced the assessment phase of the project and is evaluating the impact on its financial statements from the future adoption of the standard.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.


item2.txt
Revenues increased $72 million or 6.5% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($47 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($64 million).
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Margins in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time.
Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance of $150 million, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.
Margins in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Other than this update, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as reported in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Higher operating income was offset by a lower tax deduction from stock-based compensation in the current quarter.
Purchases of Equity Securities.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management is implementing its plan to remediate the material weakness described above.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


