fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company recognizes lease costs on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term, except for variable lease payments that are expensed in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment as a long-lived asset.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 80% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 95% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
In addition, revenues were $2 million and $16 million higher for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
The amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss is included in interest expense.
Item 1A.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items.
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
For its facility leases, the Company combines and accounts for lease and non-lease components together as a single component.


item2.txt
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Cost of revenues increased $408 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
There remains a possibility that political and policy disputes could result in a full or partial government shutdown later this year.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.
Cost synergies related to the acquisition were offset by lower net profit write-ups.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 decreased from 6.2% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization, lower current quarter net profit write-ups and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.
We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $400 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 3.


