fls.txt



item1.txt
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable.
As of November 2, 2018, the Company had $1.1 billion of remaining performance obligations.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards, which include indemnification obligations owing to former Parent for periods prior to the Distribution Date.
This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Under the Second Amendment, interest rate margins for the Term Loan B Facility due May 2022 were 2.00%, subject to a 0.75% floor for Eurocurrency Rate loans, or 1.00% for Base Rate loans.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
The Company is implementing new lease accounting software and is designing new processes and internal controls.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
On August 27, 2018, the Company received a stop-work order from the United States Marine Corps on the Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract and on October 3, 2018 the program was terminated for convenience by the customer.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.
If they arise and exceed the $50 million threshold, the Company will be responsible for 30% of the former Parent’s incremental contingent losses on corporate claims (and former Parent will be responsible for 70% of the Company’s incremental losses on claims relating to operations that exceed $50 million).


item2.txt
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Cost of revenues increased $103 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments.
Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.
We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
In connection with the Merger Agreement, we expect to assume approximately $900 million of Engility's debt.
•Funded Backlog.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.
As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary.


