item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal months with calendar months.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the interim periods presented.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 26, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use (ROU) asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted this new standard using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition approach of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements for the impacts of adoption.
Adoption of the new standard on April 27, 2019 resulted in the recognition of approximately $149 million of operating lease ROU assets, net of deferred rent and lease restructuring liabilities, $158 million of lease liabilities, and a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings of $6 million on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
We do not separate non-lease components from lease components for any class of leases, and we do not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.


item2.txt
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation.
Our Data Fabric approach enables our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Beginning in fiscal 2020, Strategic includes All-flash FAS (AFF) products, including all related add-on hardware and operating system (OS) software, private cloud solutions (including SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure products, StorageGrid), enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products.
For comparability, Strategic and Mature revenues presented for the prior year period have been recast based on the revised groupings.
In addition to our products and solutions, we provide a variety of services to our customers, including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.
Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard Leases (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition method of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of July 26, 2019, we had fixed income debt investments of $565 million.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services while managing the transition from older ones, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality and support for our new products and services, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in the introduction of new products, services and solutions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.


