item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the interim periods presented.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended October 25, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use (ROU) asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted this new standard using the modified retrospective approach, electing the optional transition approach of not adjusting our comparative period financial statements for the impacts of adoption.
Adoption of the new standard on April 27, 2019 resulted in the recognition of approximately $149 million of operating lease ROU assets, net of deferred rent and lease restructuring liabilities, $158 million of lease liabilities, and a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings of $6 million on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 25, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2019.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.


item2.txt
Our Data Fabric approach enables our customers to manage, secure and protect their data from on-premises to public to hybrid clouds, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Beginning in fiscal 2020, Strategic includes All-flash FAS (AFF) products, including all related add-on hardware and operating system (OS) software, private cloud solutions (including SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure products, StorageGrid), enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products.
For comparability, Strategic and Mature revenues presented for the prior year periods have been recast based on the revised groupings.
In addition to our products and solutions, we provide a variety of services to our customers, including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training.
Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues.
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
On August 29, 2019, the second closing occurred and we consummated the sale of the land, with a net book value of $53 million, and received cash proceeds of $96 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $38 million.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of October 25, 2019, we had fixed income debt investments of $442 million.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services while managing the transition from older ones, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality and support for our new products and services, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.


