item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 26, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended January 26, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standards update related to the recognition and reporting of revenue that establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Our ability to adopt this standard using the full retrospective method is dependent upon system readiness, for both revenue and commissions, and the completion of the analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements and disclosures.
We are continuing to assess the impact of this standard on our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures and have not yet determined whether the effect will be material.
We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our operating cash flows.
We do not expect that the new standard will result in substantive changes in our deliverables or the amounts of revenue allocated between multiple deliverables, with the exception of the items discussed above.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.


item2.txt
With our all-flash array portfolio, including our AFF-Series, EF-Series and SolidFire SF-Series products, we enable customers to modernize storage and data management to boost performance in their traditional data centers, while mapping out their move to a hybrid cloud.
On December 7, 2017, the first closing date, we consummated the sale of properties with a net book value of $66 million for cash proceeds of $210 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $142 million.
In fiscal 2016, we entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement of certain of our land and buildings.
In December 2017, we terminated the leases and recorded a non-cash sale of properties with a net book value of $54 million, the extinguishment of $130 million in financing obligations, and a gain of $76 million.
Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years.
Net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $1,523 million and $4,270 million, respectively, reflecting an increase of $119 million, or 8%, and $232 million, or 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year, reflecting higher product revenues, partially offset by lower hardware maintenance and other services revenues.
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by one percentage point and one and a half percentage points, respectively, compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, reflecting higher margins on product revenues.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of January 26, 2018, we had fixed income debt investments of $3.1 billion.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Our new consumption based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based SaaS, and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption based offerings.


