item1.txt
Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
Refer to Note 5 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended January 25, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership.
As of the beginning of fiscal 2019, we adopted the new accounting standard Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the full retrospective method of adoption.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
As illustrated in Note 5 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the overall impact of adoption was not significant to prior periods.
However, application of the new rules to our ELAs resulted in approximately $110 million of product revenues for such arrangements in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, that are incremental to the amounts we would have recognized under the old standard.
None of this incremental revenue was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Investments — As of January 25, 2019, we had fixed income debt investments of $1.9 billion.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Our new consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.
We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems.
These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings.


