Item 1. Financial Statements. 



Encore Wire Corporation



Consolidated Balance Sheets









See accompanying notes.



Encore Wire Corporation



Consolidated Statements of Income







See accompanying notes.



Encore Wire Corporation



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow







See accompanying notes.



ENCORE WIRE CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 







NOTE 1 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Basis of Presentation



The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Encore Wire Corporation (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation, have been included. Results of operations for interim periods presented do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for the entire year. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Revenue Recognition



The majority of our revenue is derived by fulfilling customer orders for the purchase of our products, which include electrical building wire and cable. We recognize revenue at the point in time that control of the ordered product(s) is transferred to the customer, which is typically upon shipment to the customer from our manufacturing facilities and based on agreed upon shipping terms on the related purchase order. Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as accounts receivables on the balance sheet and require payment on a short-term basis through standard payment terms.



Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for fulfilling product orders. The amount of consideration we expect to receive and revenue we recognize includes estimates for trade payment discounts and customer rebates which are estimated using historical experience and other relevant factors and is recorded within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We review and update these estimates regularly and the impact of any adjustments are recognized in the period the adjustments are identified. The adjustments recognized in first quarters of 2018 and 2017 resulting from updated estimates of revenue for product sales were not material.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative U.S. GAAP other than Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants. The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification. The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. The followings are those ASUs that are relevant to the Company.



In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, “Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118),” which allows the Company to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. Since the 2017 Tax Act was passed late in the fourth quarter of 2017, and ongoing guidance and accounting interpretation is expected over the next twelve months, management considers the deferred tax re-measurements and other items to be incomplete due to the forthcoming guidance and the ongoing analysis of final year-end data and tax positions. The Company expects to complete its analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provides companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASC Topic 606 and all the related amendments to all of our contracts using the modified retrospective method. Upon completing our implementation assessment of Topic ASC 606, we concluded that no adjustment was required to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application. The comparative information has also not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. Additional disclosures required by ASC Topic 606 are presented under Revenue Recognition above.



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize a right to use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms of twelve months or longer. Lessor accounting remains largely consistent with existing U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The standard requires the use of a modified retrospective transition method. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



NOTE 2 – INVENTORIES 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.







LIFO pools are established at the end of each fiscal year. During the first three quarters of every year, LIFO calculations are based on the inventory levels and costs at that time. Accordingly, interim LIFO balances will fluctuate depending on those inventory levels and costs.



In the first quarter of 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $2.0 million, versus LIFO adjustments increasing cost of sales by $4.4 million in the first quarter of 2017. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company liquidated a portion of the LIFO inventory layer in the aluminum wire pool established in prior years. This liquidation had an insignificant effect on the net income of the Company. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company did not liquidate any LIFO inventory layers established in prior years. 



NOTE 3 – ACCRUED LIABILITIES 







NOTE 4 – INCOME TAXES 



Income taxes were accrued at an effective rate of 24.1% in the first quarter of 2018 versus 33.5% in the first quarter of 2017, consistent with the Company’s estimated liabilities. The differences between the provisions for income taxes and the income taxes computed using the federal income tax statutory rate are due primarily to the incremental taxes accrued for state and local taxes.



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law. The law significantly reformed the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The reduction in the corporate tax rate required a one-time revaluation of certain tax related assets and liabilities to reflect their value at the lower corporate tax rate of 21%. Due to the complexities involved in the accounting for the enactment of the new law, the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 118 allowed a provisional estimate for the year ended December 31, 2017, which we made. As of March 31, 2018, we have not made any material adjustments to our provisional estimate at December 31, 2017. We have made a reasonable estimate of the effect on our deferred tax balances. We will continue to analyze the impact of the new law and additional impacts will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period provided for in SAB 118.



NOTE 5 – EARNINGS PER SHARE 



Earnings per common and common equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period. If dilutive, the effect of stock options, treated as common stock equivalents, is calculated using the treasury stock method.







The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the first quarter was 146,000 in 2018 and 114,000 in 2017. Such options were anti-dilutive for their respective periods.



NOTE 6 – DEBT 



The Company is party to a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with two banks, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and letter of credit issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as syndication agent. The Credit Agreement, as amended, extends through October 1, 2021 and provides for maximum borrowings of $150.0 million. At our request, and subject to certain conditions, the commitments under the Credit Agreement may be increased by a maximum of up to $100.0 million as long as existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional commitments. Borrowings under the line of credit bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either (1) LIBOR plus a margin that varies from 0.875% to 1.75% depending upon the Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement), or (2) the base rate (which is the highest of the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, the prime rate, or LIBOR plus 1.0%) plus 0% to 0.25% (depending upon the Leverage Ratio). A commitment fee ranging from 0.15% to 0.30% (depending upon the Leverage Ratio) is payable on the unused line of credit. At March 31, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.3 million left $148.7 million of credit available under the Credit Agreement. Obligations under the Credit Agreement are the only contractual borrowing obligations or commercial borrowing commitments of the Company.



Obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured and contain customary covenants and events of default. The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of March 31, 2018.



NOTE 7 – STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



On November 10, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to an authorized number of shares of its common stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prices determined by the President of the Company during the term of the program. The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several increases and annual extensions of this stock repurchase program, and, as of March 31, 2018, 1,132,946 shares remained authorized for repurchase through March 31, 2019. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its stock in the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. There were no changes to stockholders’ equity for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 other than net income, the declaration of dividends, stock compensation, and the issuance of immaterial amounts of shares of common stock.



NOTE 8 - CONTINGENCIES



The Company is from time to time involved in litigation, certain other claims and arbitration matters arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of the probability of a loss and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Any such accruals are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to 



reflect the effects of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and technical experts and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter. To the extent there is a reasonable possibility (within the meaning of ASC 450) that probable losses could exceed amounts already accrued, if any, and the additional loss or range of loss is able to be estimated, management discloses the additional loss or range of loss.





On July 7, 2009, Southwire Company, a Delaware corporation (“Southwire”), filed a complaint for patent infringement against the Company and Cerro Wire, Inc. (“Cerro”) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In the complaint, Southwire alleged that the Company infringed one or more claims of United States Patent No. 7,557,301 (the “301 Patent”), entitled “Method of Manufacturing Electrical Cable Having Reduced Required Force for Installation,” by making and selling electrical cables, including the Company’s Super Slick cables. The case has been transferred to the Northern District of Georgia and the parties have agreed to stay it pending reexamination of the 301 Patent by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In an inter partes reexamination proceeding, not involving the Company, concerning the ’301, the Patent and Trial Appeal Board found all claims of the ’301 patent invalid. Southwire appealed the decision and ultimately lost its appeal. Subsequently, Southwire chose not to continue its appeal of the Patent and Trial Appeal Board decision. On March 27, 2018 the parties filed a Stipulated Dismissal with Prejudice in the ’301 Patent case. As of the date hereof, the Court has not entered the Order of Dismissal.



The potentially applicable factual and legal issues related to the above claims asserted against the Company have not been resolved. The Company disputes all of Southwire’s claims and alleged damages and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuits and vigorously pursue its own claims against Southwire if and when the litigation resumes. 



At this time, given the status of the proceedings, the complexities of the facts in dispute and the multiple claims involved, the Company has not concluded that a probable loss exists with respect to the Southwire litigation. Accordingly, no accrual has been made. Additionally, given the aforementioned uncertainties, while it is reasonably possible that we may incur a loss, the Company is unable to estimate any possible loss or range of losses for disclosure purposes.



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.



