Item 1.
Financial Statements.
Encore Wire Corporation
Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes.
Encore Wire Corporation
Statements of Income
See accompanying notes.
Encore Wire Corporation
Statements of Stockholders' Equity
See accompanying notes.
Encore Wire Corporation
Statements of Cash Flow
See accompanying notes.
ENCORE WIRE CORPORATION
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The unaudited financial statements of Encore Wire Corporation (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete annual financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation, have been included.
Results of operations for interim periods presented do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenue Recognition
The majority of our revenue is derived by fulfilling customer orders for the purchase of our products, which include electrical building wire and cable.
We recognize revenue at the point in time that control of the ordered products is transferred to the customer, which is typically upon shipment to the customer from our manufacturing facilities and based on agreed upon shipping terms on the related purchase order.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as accounts receivables on the balance sheet and require payment on a short-term basis through standard payment terms.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for fulfilling product orders.
The amount of consideration we expect to receive and revenue we recognize includes estimates for trade payment discounts and customer rebates which are estimated using historical experience and other relevant factors and is recorded within the same period that the revenue is recognized.
We review and update these estimates regularly and the impact of any adjustments are recognized in the period the adjustments are identified.
The adjustments resulting from updated estimates of trade payment discounts and customer rebates were not material.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative U.S. GAAP other than Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants.
The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs.
The following are those ASUs that are relevant to the Company.
The Company has a minimal number of leases, all of which are classified as operating.
As a result of the adoption of ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” on January 1, 2019, the Company recorded $0.7 million of right of use assets which are included in other non-current assets, $0.2 million of current lease liabilities which are included in accounts payable and $0.5 million of long-term lease liabilities included in other non-current liabilities.
We will evaluate any future lease commitments in conformance with ASU No.
2016-02.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326),” which makes significant changes to the accounting for credit losses on financial assets and disclosures about them.
This ASU requires immediate recognition of management’s estimates of current expected credit losses.
Under the prior model, losses were recognized only as they were incurred, which FASB has noted delayed recognition of expected losses that might not yet have met the threshold of being probable.
The guidance affects all entities in all industries and applies to a wide variety of financial assets, including trade receivables.
The new standard will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
ASU 2016-13 permits only a modified retrospective approach without restatement.
The Company is still evaluating but does not expect the new standard to impact our financial statements materially.
NOTE 2 – INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.
LIFO pools are established at the end of each fiscal year.
During the first three quarters of every year, LIFO calculations are based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO balances will fluctuate depending on those inventory levels and costs.
In the third quarter of 2019, LIFO adjustments were recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $4.4 million, versus LIFO adjustments decreasing cost of sales by $9.1 million in the third quarter of 2018.
In the first nine months of 2019, LIFO adjustments were recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $3.9 million, versus LIFO adjustments decreasing cost of sales by $5.4 million in the first nine months of 2018.
NOTE 3 – ACCRUED LIABILITIES
NOTE 4 – INCOME TAXES
Income taxes were accrued at an effective rate of 23.2% in the third quarter of 2019 versus 23.3% in the third quarter of 2018, consistent with the Company’s estimated liabilities.
For the nine months ended September 30, the Company’s tax rate was approximately 23.1% in 2019 and 23.3% in 2018.
In all periods, the differences between the provisions for income taxes and the income taxes computed using the federal income tax statutory rate are due primarily to the incremental taxes accrued for state and local taxes.
NOTE 5 – EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per common and common equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period.
If dilutive, the effect of stock options, treated as common stock equivalents, is calculated using the treasury stock method.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the third quarter was 121,413 in 2019 and 166,500 in 2018.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the nine months ended September 30 was 118,804 in 2019 and 159,537 in 2018.
Such options were anti-dilutive for their respective periods.
NOTE 6 – DEBT
The Company is party to a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with two banks, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and letter of credit issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as syndication agent.
The Credit Agreement, as amended, extends through October 1, 2021 and provides for maximum borrowings of $150.0 million.
At our request, and subject to certain conditions, the commitments under the Credit Agreement may be increased by a maximum of up to $100.0 million as long as existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional commitments.
Borrowings under the line of credit bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either (1) LIBOR plus a margin that varies from 0.875% to 1.75% depending upon the Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement), or (2) the base rate (which is the highest of the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, the prime rate, or LIBOR plus 1.0%) plus 0% to 0.25% (depending upon the Leverage Ratio).
A commitment fee ranging from 0.15% to 0.30% (depending upon the Leverage Ratio) is payable on the unused line of credit.
At September 30, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.5 million left $148.5 million of credit available under the Credit Agreement.
Obligations under the Credit Agreement are the only contractual borrowing obligations or commercial borrowing commitments of the Company.
Obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured and contain customary covenants and events of default.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of September 30, 2019.
NOTE 7 – STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
On November 10, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to an authorized number of shares of its common stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prices determined by the President of the Company during the term of the program.
The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several increases and annual extensions of this stock repurchase program, and, as of September 30, 2019, 1,132,946 shares remained authorized for repurchase through March 31, 2020.
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its stock in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018.
NOTE 8 - CONTINGENCIES
There are no material pending proceedings to which the Company is a party or to which any of its property is subject.
However, the Company is from time to time involved in litigation, certain other claims and arbitration matters arising in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of the probability of a loss and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
Any such accruals are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the effects of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and technical experts and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter.
To the extent there is a reasonable possibility (within the meaning of ASC 450 “Contingencies”) that probable losses could exceed amounts already accrued, if any, and the additional loss or range of loss is able to be estimated, management discloses the additional loss or range of loss.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
