Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Encore believes it is a low-cost manufacturer of electrical building wire and cable.
The Company is a significant supplier of building wire for interior electrical wiring in commercial and industrial buildings, homes, apartments, and manufactured housing.
The Company’s operating results in any given period are driven by several key factors, including the volume of product produced and shipped, the cost of copper and other raw materials, the competitive pricing environment in the wire industry and the resulting influence on gross margin and the efficiency with which the Company’s plants operate during the period, among others.
Price competition for electrical wire and cable is intense, and the Company sells its products in accordance with prevailing market prices.
Copper, a commodity product, is the principal raw material used by the Company in manufacturing its products.
Copper accounted for approximately 69.7%, 65.2%, and 72.1% of the Company’s cost of goods sold during fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The price of copper fluctuates depending on general economic conditions and in relation to supply and demand and other factors, which causes monthly variations in the cost of the Company’s purchased copper.
Additionally, the SEC allows shares of certain physically backed copper exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) to be listed and publicly traded.
Such funds and other copper ETFs like them hold copper cathode as collateral against their shares.
The acquisition of copper cathode by copper ETFs may materially decrease or interrupt the availability of copper for immediate delivery in the United States, which could materially increase the Company’s cost of copper.
In addition to rising copper prices and potential supply shortages, we believe that ETFs and similar copper-backed derivative products could lead to increased price volatility for copper.
The Company cannot predict copper prices or the effect of fluctuations in the cost of copper on the Company’s future operating results.
Wire prices can, and frequently do, change on a daily basis.
This competitive pricing market for wire does not always mirror changes in copper prices, making margins highly volatile.
With the volatility of both raw material prices and wire prices in the Company’s end market, hedging raw materials can be risky.
Historically, the Company has not engaged in hedging strategies for raw material purchases.
The tables below highlight the range of closing prices of copper on a per pound basis on the Comex exchange for the periods shown.
COMEX COPPER CLOSING PRICE 2018
COMEX COPPER CLOSING PRICE 2017
The following discussion and analysis relates to factors that have affected the operating results of the Company for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Reference should also be made to the audited financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Results of Operations
Quarter Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Quarter Ended June 30, 2017
Net sales were $336.8 million in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $291.5 million in the second quarter of 2017.
This 15.5% increase in net sales dollars is primarily the result of a 17.4% increase in copper wire sales, driven by a 17.2% increase in the average selling price of copper wire and a 0.1% increase in copper wire unit volume shipped.
Unit volume is measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire shipped during the period.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased increased 18.7% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 and was the principal driver of the increased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold was $292.3 million, or 86.8% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $255.7 million, or 87.7% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2017.
Gross profit increased to $44.5 million, or 13.2% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018 versus $35.9 million, or 12.3% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2017.
The increase in gross profit margin percentage was driven principally by the increase of the copper wire spread.
The spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sales price for a pound of copper contained in finished wire increased 14.2% in the second quarter of 2018 versus the second quarter of 2017.
The spread increased as a result of the average sales price per pound of copper sold increasing 17.2% while the per pound cost of raw copper increased 18.7%.
The percentage change on sales is on a higher nominal dollar amount than on purchases and, therefore, spreads change on a nominal dollar basis.
The margin changes were due primarily to the competitive pricing environment in the industry.
In aluminum wire, which represented 7.3% of our net sales in the second quarter of 2018, we continued to experience pressure on margins due to import competition from China.
We will continue to monitor conditions regarding aluminum wire and will take action to enforce our rights under the U.S. trade remedy laws if we determine that further action is warranted.
Total raw materials cost, including the LIFO adjustment, increased to 76.4% of net sales in the second quarter of 2018, from 75.7% of net sales in the second quarter of 2017.
Lower overhead costs as a percentage of net sales somewhat offset this increase in total raw materials cost as a percentage of net sales.
Overheads contained some fixed and semi-fixed components which do not fluctuate as much as sales dollars fluctuate.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, using the last-in, first out (LIFO) method, or market.
The Company maintains two inventory pools for LIFO purposes.
As permitted by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains its inventory costs and cost of goods sold on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis and makes a monthly adjustment to adjust total inventory and cost of goods sold from FIFO to LIFO.
The Company applies the lower of cost or market (LCM) test by comparing the LIFO cost of its raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods inventories to estimated market values, which are based primarily upon the most recent quoted market price of copper and other material prices as of the end of each reporting period.
The Company performs a lower of cost or market calculation quarterly.
As of June 30, 2018, no LCM adjustment was required.
However, decreases in copper and other material prices could necessitate establishing an LCM reserve in future periods.
Additionally, future reductions in the quantity of inventory on hand could cause copper or other raw materials that are carried in inventory at costs different from
the cost of copper and other raw materials in the period in which the reduction occurs to be included in costs of goods sold for that period at the different price.
Due primarily to increases in copper costs and price and volume movements of other materials, a LIFO adjustment was recorded, increasing cost of sales by $1.7 million during the second quarter of 2018.
During the second quarter of 2017, a LIFO adjustment was recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $0.4 million.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2017
Net sales for the first six months of 2018 were $628.2 million compared to net sales of $570.9 million for the first six months of 2017.
This 10.0% increase in net sales is primarily the result of a 12.0% increase in copper wire sales, driven by a 16.4% increase in the average selling price of copper wire, partially offset by a 3.8% decrease in copper wire unit volume shipped.
Unit volume is measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire shipped during the period.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased increased 18.5% in the first six months of 2018 compared to the first six months of 2017 and was the principal driver of the increased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold increased to $546.2 million in the first six months of 2018, compared to $495.8 million in the first six months of 2017.
Gross profit increased to $82.0 million, or 13.1% of net sales, in the first six months of 2018 versus $75.1 million, or 13.2% of net sales, in the first six months of 2017.
The gross profit margin percentage held steady despite the 3.8% unit volume decrease primarily as a result of an increase in the spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sale price for a pound of copper in the first six months of 2018 versus the first six months of 2017 due primarily to competitive industry pricing.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper raw material prices and product price competition.
The copper spread increased 12.1% in the first six months of 2018 versus the first six months of 2017.
The spread increased as a result of the 16.4% increase in the average sales price per copper pound sold while the per pound cost of raw copper increased 18.5%.
In nominal dollars, the sales price increased more than the cost of copper.
Due primarily to increases in copper costs and an increase in copper inventory quantities on hand, aided somewhat by price and volume movements of other materials in the first six months of 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $3.7 million.
During the same period in 2017, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $4.0 million.
During the first six months of both 2018 and 2017, the Company liquidated a portion of the LIFO inventory layer in the aluminum wire pool established in prior years.
The liquidation had an insignificant effect on the net income of the Company.
Based on current copper prices, there is no LCM adjustment necessary.
Future reductions in the price of copper could require the Company to record an LCM adjustment against the related inventory balance, which would result in a negative impact on net income.
Selling expenses for the first six months of 2018 increased to $32.9 million, or 5.2% of net sales, compared to $27.6 million, or 4.8% of net sales, in the same period of 2017.
Commissions paid to independent manufacturers’ representatives are paid as a relatively stable percentage of sales dollars, and therefore, exhibited little change in percentage terms, increasing $1.3 million in concert with the increased sales dollars.
Freight costs for the first six months of 2018 increased to 2.8% of net sales, versus 2.3% of net sales for the first six months of 2017.
As discussed above, freight rates are up nationally as the highly publicized shortage of drivers and new regulations on the trucking industry impact rates in that industry.
General and administrative expenses were $11.5 million, or 1.8% of net sales, in the first half of 2018 compared to $10.5 million, or 1.8% of net sales, in the first half of 2017.
The Company did not record any bad debt expense during the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company maintains a substantial inventory of finished products to satisfy customers’ delivery requirements promptly.
As is customary in the building wire industry, the Company provides payment terms to most of its customers that exceed terms that it receives from its suppliers.
Copper suppliers generally give very short payment terms (less than 15 days) while the Company and the building wire industry give customers much longer terms.
In general, the Company’s standard payment terms result in the collection of a significant majority of net sales within approximately 75 days of the date of invoice.
As a result of this timing difference, building wire companies must have sufficient cash and access to capital resources to finance their working capital needs, thereby creating a barrier to entry for companies who do not have sufficient liquidity and capital resources.
The two largest components of working capital, receivables and inventory, and to a lesser extent, capital expenditures, are the primary drivers of the Company’s liquidity needs.
Generally, these needs will cause the Company’s cash balance to rise and fall inversely to the receivables and inventory balances.
The Company’s receivables and inventories will rise and fall in concert with several factors, most notably the price of copper and other raw materials and the level of unit sales.
Capital expenditures have historically been necessary to expand and update the production capacity of the Company’s manufacturing operations.
The Company has historically satisfied its liquidity and capital expenditure needs with cash generated from operations and borrowings under its various debt arrangements.
The Company historically uses its revolving credit facility to manage day to day operating cash needs as required by daily fluctuations in working capital and has the facility in place should such a need arise in the future.
For more information on the Company’s revolving credit facility, see Note 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Cash used in operating activities was $6.0 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to $0.7 million of cash provided in the first six months of 2017.
The following changes in components of cash flow from operations were notable.
The Company had net income of $29.4 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to net income of $24.6 million in the first six months of 2017.
Accounts receivable increased $29.5 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to increasing $35.7 million in the first six months of 2017, resulting in a positive change in cash flow of $6.2 million in the first six months of 2018 versus the first six months of 2017.
Accounts receivable generally fluctuate in proportion to dollar sales and, to a lesser extent, are affected by the timing of when sales occur during a given quarter.
With an average of 60 to 75 days of sales outstanding, quarters in which sales are more back-end loaded will have higher accounts receivable balances outstanding at quarter-end.
Inventory value increased in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, using cash of $4.5 million and $2.2 million in the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
Trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities used cash of $9.6 million in 2018 versus a $14.5 million source of cash in 2017, resulting in a negative change in cash flow of $24.1 million.
In the first six months of 2018, changes in current and deferred taxes used cash of $1.3 million versus $7.6 million in the first six months of 2017.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $6.7 million increase in cash used in operations in the first six months of 2018 compared to the first six months of 2017.
Cash used in investing activities increased to $14.8 million in the first six months of 2018 from $10.2 million in the first six months of 2017 due to higher capital expenditures on plant and equipment.
Cash used in financing activities in the first six months of 2018 consisted of $0.8 million of cash dividends paid, partially offset by $0.3 million of proceeds from exercised stock options.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $0.5 million of cash used in financing activities for the first six months of 2018 versus $0.4 million used in the first six months of 2017.
As of June 30, 2018, the balance on the Company’s revolving line of credit remained at zero.
The Company’s cash balance was $102.0 million at June 30, 2018 versus $85.9 million at June 30, 2017.
During the remainder of 2018, the Company expects its capital expenditures will consist primarily of expenditures related to the purchases of manufacturing equipment throughout its facilities to update equipment and address production bottlenecks.
The total capital expenditures for all of 2018 associated with these projects are currently estimated to be between $34 million and $39 million.
The Company also expects its future working capital requirements to fluctuate as a result of changes in unit sales volumes and the price of copper and other raw materials.
The Company believes that the current cash balance, cash flow from operations, and the financing available from its revolving credit facility will satisfy anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements during 2018.
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains various “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and information that is based on management’s belief as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.
The words “believes”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “seeks”, “expects”, “intends” and similar expressions identify some of the forward-looking statements.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected.
Among the key factors that may have a direct bearing on the Company’s operating results are fluctuations in the economy and in the level of activity in the building and construction industry, demand for the Company’s products, the impact of price competition and fluctuations in the price of copper and other raw materials.
For more information regarding “forward-looking statements” see “Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
