item1.txt
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G. The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into single enterprise-wide organizations. As a result of the reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations, and instead of segment managers, the Chief Operating Officer began reporting to maintaining regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the entire business. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report reflects the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August of 2018. Beginning with the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company will not report any segment information. The Company will report revenue and gross profit for its two major product lines, Antenna Products and Test and Measurement Products.  
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies. Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks. Revenue growth is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e. 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers. 
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products. On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million. The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment. The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products. As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2017. The Company restated the results of Engineering Services as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations. 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income,  
The Company follows accounting guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures, which establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires the Company to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use  
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  
The Company had $1.6 million and $1.2 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Included in such amounts are cash of $1.4 million and $1.0 million in China bank accounts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may experience difficulty in doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company is in process of liquidating its Israeli legal entity and will repatriate the cash net of taxes from the foreign bank account in Israel upon liquidation. The Company accounted for the tax impact of the repatriation of the Israel cash in 2017. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. 
At September 30, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. At December 31, 2017, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of pre-funded municipal bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All of the investments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost. The income and principal from the pre-refunded municipal bonds were secured by an irrevocable trust of U.S. Treasury securities. Approximately 8% of the Company’s municipal bond investments were protected by bond default insurance at December 31, 2017. All of the municipal bonds matured during the quarter ended June 30, 2018. 
The disposition met the requirements for classification as held for sale during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 because the disposition met all the criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Due to the significance of the results during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes. As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017. There were no activities related to discontinued operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 other than transition services related to the billing for one customer. The Company completed the transition for billing as of June 30, 2018.  
The Company amortizes intangible assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, which range from one to six years. Amortization expense was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. Amortization for technology assets is included in cost of revenues and amortization for all other intangible assets is included in operating expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.1 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.2 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.3 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.5 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues.  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.3 million at September 30, 2018 and at December 31, 2017.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, finished goods and work-in-process. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.7 million and $0.5 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.1 million at September 30, 2018 and $3.0 million at December 31, 2017. 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life. Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 
Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $2.1 million and $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization for capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 10 for information related to capital leases. 
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $0.8 million and $0.7 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $2.6 million and $2.5 million of stock compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  
The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives. When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted. The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares. These grants vest over various periods. During the first quarter 2018, the Company issued 420,977 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.  During the second quarter 2018, the Company issued 60,998 restricted stock awards to the board of directors that vested upon issuance.  
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 


item2.txt
The decrease in revenues for the RF Solutions segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to lower capital spending by U.S. carriers and also lower revenues in the Asia Pacific region because 2017 included some larger projects in China. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease in revenues for the Connected Solutions segment was due to lower sales in the industrial and public safety vertical markets. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease in revenues for the Connected Solutions segment was due to lower sales in the industrial and public safety vertical markets, offset by increased sales in the Enterprise Wi-Fi vertical market. The operating loss for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily the result of the negative gross margin impact of lower revenues generated by the RF Solutions segment and a lower gross margin percentage for the Connected Solutions segment. Operating expenses were lower for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 as lower general and administrative expenses offset higher research and development expenses.  
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry. We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions. The Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas. PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things. The RF Solutions segment provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally. Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks. 
Effective August 2018, we consolidated our organizational structure. Our operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organizations. As a result of the reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, our Chief Executive Officer, as the CODM, began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations, and instead of segment managers, the Chief Operating Officer began reporting to and maintaining regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the entire business. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  
Generally, revenue growth for the RF Solutions segment is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e., 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G, etc.). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate our products into their solution, which is then sold to wireless carriers. PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the test tool market. These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal processing engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering. 
Revenues decreased 22.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and decreased 9.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease in revenues for the Connected Solutions segment was due to lower sales in the industrial and fleet vertical markets. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease in revenues for the Connected Solutions segment was due to lower sales in the industrial and public safety vertical markets, offset by increased sales in the Enterprise Wi-Fi vertical market. Revenues for the RF Solutions segment decreased 38.0% and 27.6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to lower capital spending by U.S. carriers for legacy 4G wireless systems in preparation for the capital expenditures required for 5G deployments. RF Solutions revenues were also lower in the Asia Pacific region because 2017 included some large projects in China.  
The gross profit decreased by 640 basis points for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 and decreased by 560 basis points for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The declines in gross profit were due to a higher mix of revenues from the Connected Solutions segment as well as a decline in the gross profit percentage for the Connected Solutions segment. The gross profit for the Connected Solutions segment declined by 390 basis points and 380 basis points for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, due to price pressure in the small cell vertical market and due to product mix. The three months ended September 30, 2018 included $0.2 million for severance and employee benefits related to manufacturing headcount reductions in the Connected Solutions segment. The gross profit for the RF Solutions segment decreased by 790 and 460 basis points for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2017 primarily due to the impact of fixed costs over lower revenues. 
Research and development expenses increased approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and increased $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, expenses for the Connected Solutions segment were higher by $0.3 million and expenses for the RF Solutions segment were approximately the same compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 consists of higher expenses of $0.8 million for the Connected Solutions segment and higher expenses of $0.1 million for the RF Solutions segment compared to the same period in the prior year. Expenses for both segments were higher compared to the prior year periods due to additional headcount and equipment required to support investments in growth areas.  
Sales and marketing expenses decreased approximately $0.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, sales and marketing expenses were lower by $0.2 million for the RF Solutions segment and lower by $0.1 million for the Connected Solutions segment compared to the same period for each of the segments, respectively, in 2017. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, sales commissions were lower by $0.2 million and product line and marketing expenses for the RF Solutions segment were lower by $0.1 million compared to the same period in 2017. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, sales and marketing expenses for the Connected Solutions segment declined $0.4 million, offsetting higher sales and marketing expenses of $0.1 million for the RF Solutions segment compared to the same period in 2017. The expense decrease for the Connected Solutions segment is due to headcount reductions in sales and marketing at the end of the first quarter 2017. The expense increase for RF Solutions for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was due to additions to sales and marketing headcount offset by lower sales commission expenses. 


