item1.txt
PCTEL operates in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. The Company’s chief operating decision maker uses operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions. All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function. The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level. Each of the segment managers reports to and maintains regular contact with the chief operating decision maker to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment. 
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas. PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT. Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets. PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution. 
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies. Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks. Revenue growth is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e. 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers. 
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products. On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million. The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment. The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products. As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2017. The Company restated the results of Engineering Services as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations. 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net were $60 and $(41) for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net foreign exchange (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net were $(9) and $(53) for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  
The Company had $1.5 million and $1.2 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Included in such amounts are cash of $1.3 million and $1.0 million in China bank accounts at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may experience difficulty in doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. 
At June 30, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. At December 31, 2017, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of pre-funded municipal bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All of the investments at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were classified as held-to-maturity. The income and principal from the pre-refunded municipal bonds were secured by an irrevocable trust of U.S. Treasury securities. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost. Approximately 8% of the Company’s municipal bond investments were protected by bond default insurance at December 31, 2017. All of the municipal bonds matured during the quarter ended June 30, 2018. 
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $28 and $34 at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.  
The disposition met the requirements for classification as held for sale during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 because the disposition met all the criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Due to the significance of the results during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes. As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. There were no activities related to discontinued operations during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 other than transition services for billing one customer. The Company completed the transition for billing as of June 30, 2018.  
The Company amortizes intangible assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, which range from one to six years. Amortization expense was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization for technology assets is included in cost of revenues and amortization for all other intangible assets is included in operating expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.1 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.2 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, $0.3 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.3 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.2 million and $0.3 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.  
December 31, 2017, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.0 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life. Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 
Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $0.7 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $1.4 million and $1.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization for capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 10 for information related to capital leases. 
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $1.1 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $1.8 million of stock compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  
The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives. When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted. The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares. These grants vest over various periods. During the first quarter 2018, the Company issued 420,977 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.  During the second quarter 2018, the Company issued 60,998 restricted stock awards to the board of directors that vested upon issuance.  
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the three months ended June 30, 2017 was $0.2 million. No service-based restricted shares vested during the three months ended June 30, 2018. The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2018, and 2017 was $0.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively.   
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 


item2.txt
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry. We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions. The Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas. PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things. The RF Solutions segment provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally. Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks. 
Generally, revenue growth for the RF Solutions segment is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e., 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G, etc.). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate our products into their solution, which is then sold to wireless carriers. PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the test tool market. These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal processing engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering. 
Research and development expenses increased approximately $0.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and increased $0.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017. The increase during the three months ended June 30, 2018 consists of higher expenses of $0.2 million for the Connected Solutions segment and higher expenses of $0.2 million for the RF Solutions segment compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase during the six months ended June 30, 2018 consists of higher expenses of $0.5 million for the Connected Solutions segment and higher expenses of $0.1 million for the RF Solutions segment compared to the same period in the prior year. Expenses for both segments were higher compared to the prior year periods due to additional headcount and equipment required to support investments in growth areas.  
Sales and marketing expenses increased approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and decreased $0.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, sales and marketing expenses were higher by $0.2 million for the RF Solutions segment and approximately even for the Connected Solutions segment compared to the same period in 2017. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, sales and marketing expenses for the Connected Solutions segment declined $0.3 million, offsetting higher sales and marketing expenses of $0.2 million for the RF Solutions segment compared to the same period in 2017. The expense decrease for the Connected Solutions segment is due to headcount reductions in sales and marketing at the end of the first quarter 2017. The expense increase for RF Solutions for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was due to additions to sales and marketing headcount. 
General and administrative expenses declined by $0.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and declined by $0.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 because 2017 included incentive compensation expense and corporate expenses related to the CEO transition that were not included in 2018 and other corporate expenses were lower in 2018. Incentive compensation expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, were $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Corporate expenses related to the CEO transition were $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.  
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we approved a plan to sell our Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift our focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products. We sold the business to Gabe’s Construction on July 31, 2017. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for information related to discontinued operations. The results for Engineering Services is reported as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. The net loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 includes operating losses, net of income tax benefits. The loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 reflects negative gross margin of $0.1 million and $0.2 million due to the impact of high fixed costs over low revenues.  
Within investing activities, capital spending historically ranges between 2.0% and 4.0% of our revenues and the primary use of capital is for manufacturing and engineering development. Our capital expenditures during the six months ended June 30, 2018 were approximately 3.5% of revenues. We historically have significant transfers between investments and cash as we rotate our large cash balances and short-term investment balances between money market funds, which are accounted for as cash equivalents, and other investment vehicles. We have a history of supplementing our organic revenue with acquisitions of product lines or companies, resulting in significant uses of our cash and short-term investment balances from time to time. We expect the historical trend for capital spending and the variability caused by moving money between cash and investments and periodic merger and acquisition activity to continue in the future. 
Operating activities generated $2.0 million of cash during the six months ended June 30, 2018. We generated $1.4 million of cash from our income statement activities and generated $0.6 million of cash from our balance sheet activities. Within the balance sheet activities, we generated cash due to an increase in accounts payable of $2.7 million and net collections of accounts receivable of $0.5 million, offsetting use of cash for net payments of accrued liabilities of $2.1 million and higher inventories of $0.8 million. Accrued liabilities were lower at June 30, 2018, primarily due to the payout of $1.7 million for the 2017 short-term incentive plan. Accounts payable was higher at June 30, 2018 because we extended the payment cycle for certain vendors to match accounts receivable collections and due to the timing of purchases during the second quarter 2018. Inventories were higher for the Connected Solutions segment in both the U.S. and China.  


