item1.txt
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas. PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT. Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets. PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution. 
Competition in the antenna markets addressed by the Connected Solutions segment is fragmented. Competitors include Airgain, Amphenol, Laird, Pulse, and Taoglas. The Company seeks out product applications that command a premium for product performance and customer service, and it avoids commodity markets. 
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies. Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks. Revenue growth is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e. 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers. 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Net foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $69 and $12 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. Topic 842 also provides clarifications surrounding the  
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250. 
At March 31, 2018, the Company had $3.1 million in cash and $9.3 million in cash equivalents, and at December 31, 2017, the Company had $3.8 million in cash and $1.8 million in cash equivalents. At March 31, 2018, the Company had in cash equivalents $5.6 million in AA rated or higher corporate bonds, $1.9 million in certificates of deposit, $1.7 million in U.S. government agency bonds, and $0.1 million in money market funds. At December 31, 2017, the Company had in cash equivalents, $1.3 million in AA rated or higher corporate bonds, $0.3 million in U.S. government agency bonds, and $0.2 million in money market funds.  
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of pre-refunded municipal bonds, U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit, all classified as held-to-maturity. At March 31, 2018, the Company had invested $9.5 million in AA rated or higher corporate bonds, $8.5 million in certificates of deposit, and $4.3 million in U.S. government agency bonds. The income and principal from the pre-refunded municipal bonds are secured by an irrevocable trust of U.S. Treasury securities. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost. The net unrealized losses were $36 and $34 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Approximately 8% of the Company’s municipal bond investments were protected by bond default insurance at December 31, 2017. All of the municipal bonds matured during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. 
At December 31, 2017, the Company had invested $18.5 million in AA rated or higher corporate bond funds, $7.4 million in certificates of deposit, $4.5 million in U.S. government agency bonds, and $2.1 million in pre-refunded municipal bonds and taxable bond funds. 
The disposition met the requirements for classification as held for sale during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 because the disposition met all the criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Due to the significance of the results during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes. As such, the Company reported the results of its Engineering Services business as discontinued operations beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2017. The results for Engineering Services are reported as discontinued operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017. There were no activities related to discontinued operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018 other than transition services for billing for one customer. The Company expects to complete the transition for billing by June 30, 2018.  
The Company sold the fixed assets and backlog of the Network Engineering Services business to Gabe’s for $1.45 million. At closing, the Company received $1.4 million, consisting of $1.3 million for the sale of the business and $0.1 million related to future services. The Company recorded a pre-tax book gain of $0.5 million in discontinued operations during the quarter ended September 30, 2017. The net pre-tax book gain included proceeds from the sale of assets minus the book value of the assets disposed as well as severance and related payroll benefits for terminated employees. The book value of the assets was $0.6 million at the date of closing. On August 1, 2017, the Company terminated 25 employees, and Gabe’s hired 11 of these employees. The severance and related benefits for the terminated employees who were not subsequently hired by Gabe’s was $0.2 million. The income tax gain was $0.3 million, which included the tax value of the fixed assets and the remaining tax value for intangible assets no longer being used by the Company as of the sale to Gabe’s. The Company retained working capital of approximately $0.5 million, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities. There was no impairment loss recorded on the disposal of the long-lived assets because the fair value of the assets less cost to sell was higher than the carrying value of the assets.  
There were no changes to goodwill during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The $3.3 million of goodwill on the balance sheet relates to the RF Solutions segment. There were no triggering events for the RF Solutions segment during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The Company will continue to monitor goodwill for impairment going forward.  
The Company amortizes intangible assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, which range from one to six years. Amortization expense was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization for technology assets is included in cost of revenues and amortization for all other intangible assets is included in operating expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, $0.1 million of the intangible asset amortization was included in operating expenses and $0.2 million of the amortization expense was included in cost of revenues.  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amount with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million and $0.3 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method of costing. Inventories as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, finished goods and work-in-process. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.4 million and $0.5 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the  
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock as long-term incentives. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. The stock options have a seven-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within ninety days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  
The fair value of each stock option outstanding was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company’s employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, the existing models may not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the employee stock options. In addition,  
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life used for options granted was based on historical data of employee exercise performance. The Company records expense based on the graded vesting method. 


item2.txt
Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment. We recorded an operating loss of $1.2 million compared to operating income of $22 during the same period in 2017. The operating loss was primarily the result of the negative gross margin impact of lower revenues with the RF Solutions segment and a lower gross margin percentage for the Connected Solutions segment. Operating expenses were lower for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 as lower sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses offset higher research and development expenses.  
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry. We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions. The Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas. PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”). The RF Solutions segment provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally. Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks. 
Revenue growth for the RF Solutions segment is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e., 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G, etc.). PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) who integrate our products into their solution, which is then sold to wireless carriers. PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the test tool market. These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal processing (“DSP”) engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering. 
Revenues decreased 5.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. Revenues for the Connected Solutions segment increased 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increased sales in the enterprise Wi-Fi vertical market. Revenues for the RF Solutions segment decreased 30.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2017 due to lower capital spending by U.S. carriers and lower revenues in the Asia Pacific region.  
The gross profit percentage of 36.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 5.0% lower than the same period in 2017. The gross profit percentage for the Connected Solutions segment decreased 2.0% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to price pressure in the small cell vertical market and due to product mix. The gross profit percentage for RF Solutions segment decreased 3.5% compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of fixed costs over lower revenues. 
Research and development expenses increased approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. The increase during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily consists of higher expenses for the Connected Solutions segment compared to the same period in the prior year, partially offset by lower expenses for the RF Solutions segment. Expenses for the Connected Solutions segment were $0.3 million higher for the first quarter 2018 compared to the prior year period due to additional headcount and equipment required to support investments in growth areas.  
Sales and marketing expenses decreased approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to lower expenses in the Connected Solutions segment, partially offset by higher expenses for the RF Solutions segment. Sales and marketing expenses for the Connected Solutions segment declined $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to headcount reductions in sales and marketing at the end of the first quarter 2017.  


part2.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K (Item 7A). As of May 10, 2018, there have been no material changes in this information. 
PCTEL, Inc.,  


