item1.txt
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations. In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial  
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions. 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Net foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $57 and $69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the income statement and statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019. The Company commenced its assessment of Topic 842 in the second half of 2018 and developed a project plan to guide the implementation. The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date. The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements. The Company adopted this new guidance using the updated modified transition method allowed per ASU 2018-11 of Topic 842. Upon adoption on January 1, 2019, total assets and liabilities increased due to the recording of right-of-use assets of $1.5 million and lease liabilities of $1.6 million. Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'. 
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  
The Company had $1.1 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $0.9 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble in doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company completed the closure of its Israeli subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2018. The Company expects to repatriate the subsidiary’s remaining cash of $0.2 million in 2019. The Company does not expect the foreign currency exchange rate related to the repatriation of these funds to have a material impact on the financial statements.  
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, A or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All the investments at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.  
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $49 and $21 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The goodwill is related to the test and measurement product line, not to the whole Company. Due to the reorganization in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As such, there are no longer reportable segments. The Company does have discrete financial information necessary to perform goodwill impairment testing for the reporting unit under the accounting guidance. The Company evaluates the goodwill based on the cash flows for the test and measurement product line. The cash flows for the test and measurement product line are only prepared for testing goodwill and were not reviewed by the Company’s CODM for business planning purposes.  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at March 31, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, finished goods and work-in-process. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.4 million and $0.9 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.3 million at March 31, 2019 and at December 31, 2018. 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life. Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 
The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives. When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted. The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares. These grants vest over various periods. During the first quarter 2019, the Company issued 190,159 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.   
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock primarily to certain new employees. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. The stock options have a seven-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within ninety days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  
The dividend yield rate is calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The expected volatility is based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life for options granted is based on historical data of employee exercise performance. The Company records expense based on the graded vesting method. 
The performance period for the 2019 LTIP is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2021 and the participants are required to be in service at the determination date of the award following the end of the performance period in order to receive the award. Shares earned under the 2019 LTIP will be fully vested shares. Stock compensation expense is amortized over the performance period for these awards based on estimated achievement of the goal. At target, the total fair market of the award was $0.9 million based on the share price on $5.27 on the grant date. 


item2.txt
Our first quarter 2019 revenues of $20.6 million decreased by $1.1 million or 5.3% compared to revenues of $21.7 million for the same period in 2018. Revenues decreased for the antenna product line by $2.7 million or 15.1% and increased for the test and measurement product line by $1.5 million or 38.4% compared to the first quarter 2018. Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with Enterprise Wi-Fi applications and increased for the test and measurement due to sales of 5G products. The gross profit of $8.7 million, increased by $0.8 million, or 10.1% compared to gross profit of $7.9M for the same period in 2018, due to a higher mix of test and measurement product revenues and due to an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products. Primarily based on higher gross margins, we recorded a lower operating loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the first quarter 2018. The operating loss was $0.5 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. Our CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.  
Because the Reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this Form 10-Q does not include segment reporting information; however, we have included revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile. In order to understand our financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.  
The gross profit percentage increased by 5.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 because of a higher ratio of revenues from test and measurement products and because of higher gross profits for antenna products. Higher margin test and measurement products comprised 27% of the revenues in the first quarter 2019 compared to 18% of the revenues in the first quarter 2018. The gross profit percentage for the antenna product line increased by 2.9% due to more favorable product mix and due to cost reductions.  
We reported a total operating loss of $0.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and an operating loss of $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The reduction in the operating loss was primarily due to higher gross margins from the higher mix of test and measurement product revenues.  
Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided by operations, with short-term swings in liquidity supported by a significant balance of cash and short-term investments. The balance has fluctuated with cash from operations, acquisitions and divestitures, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common shares. 
Within operating activities, we are historically a net generator of operating funds from our income statement activities. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, our balance sheet provided operating funds. In periods of expansion, we expect to use cash from our balance sheet.  
Within investing activities, capital spending historically ranges between 2.0% and 4.0% of our revenues and the primary use of capital is for manufacturing, engineering, and product development. Our capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were approximately 1.5% of revenues. We historically have significant transfers between investments and cash as we rotate our large cash balances and short-term investment balances between money market funds, which are accounted for as cash equivalents, and other investment vehicles. We have a history of supplementing our organic revenue with acquisitions of product lines or companies, resulting in significant uses of our cash and short-term investment balances from time to time. We expect the historical trend for capital spending and the variability caused by moving money between cash and investments and periodic merger and acquisition activity to continue in the future. 


item4.txt
In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease with FP Gateway 270 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for our test and measurement product line. This new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland. The total lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $5.4 million with a commencement date of January 1, 2020 and termination date of February 28, 2031.  


part2.txt
All of our employees in Tianjin, China are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law. These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights. We are in the process of transitioning several product lines from our Tianjin facility to additional contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere throughout 2019 and 2020. The transition of manufacturing will result in a reduction of a significant portion of our workforce in Tianjin, China. We are currently negotiating severance arrangements for these workers.  
In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease with FP Gateway 270 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for our test and measurement product line. This new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland. The total lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $5.4 million with a commencement date of January 1, 2020 and termination date of February 28, 2031.  


