item1.txt
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating  
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions. 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $198 and $37 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $226 and $28 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the statement of operations and statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019. The Company commenced its assessment of Topic 842 in the second half of 2018 and developed a project plan to guide the implementation. The Company completed this project planin which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date. The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements. The Company adopted this new guidance using the updated modified transition method allowed per ASU 2018-11 of Topic 842. Upon adoption on January  
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
The Company had $2.8 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $2.8 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. As of September 30, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company completed the closure of its Israeli subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2018 and repatriated the subsidiary’s remaining cash of $0.2 million  
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, A or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All the investments at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.  
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $29 and $21 at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at September 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, work-in-process and finished goods. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.2 million and $0.9 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.4 million and $3.3 million at September 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018, respectively. 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the corresponding lease term or useful life. Depreciation expense and gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in cost of sales and operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $0.9 million and $0.8 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $3.2 million and $2.6 million of stock compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock primarily to certain new employees. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Outstanding stock options have either a seven-year or ten-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within 180 days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  
The dividend yield rate is calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The expected volatility is based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life for options granted is based on historical data of employee exercise performance. The Company records expense based on the graded vesting method. 
The performance period for the 2019 LTIP is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2021 and the participants are required to be in service at the determination date of the award following the end of the performance period in order to receive the award. Shares earned under the 2019 LTIP will be fully vested shares. Stock compensation expense is amortized over the performance period for these awards based on estimated achievement of the goal. At target, the total fair market value of the award was $0.9 million based on the share price of $5.27 on the grant date. 
The ESPP enables eligible employees to purchase common stock at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the first or last day of each offering period. Each offering period is approximately six months. The Company received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 95,376 shares under the ESPP in February 2019 and received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 68,212 shares under the ESPP in February 2018. The Company received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 85,483 shares under the ESPP in August 2019 and received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 88,583 shares under the ESPP in August 2018. 
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life was based on the offering period. 


item2.txt
Our third quarter 2019 revenues were $23.6 million and increased by $5.2 million or 28.2% compared to revenues of $18.4 million for the same period in 2018. Third quarter 2019 revenues increased by $3.7 million or 103.6% to $7.2 million for the test and measurement products compared to the third quarter 2018 and increased by $1.6 million or 10.7% to $16.5 million for the antenna products. Revenues increased for the test and measurement product line primarily due to sales of 5G products for early deployment. Revenues increased for the antenna products due to higher revenues with intelligent transportation products. The gross profit of $10.6 million, increased by $3.9 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to both a higher product mix of test and measurement product line revenues and an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products. Primarily based on higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to an operating loss of $2.4 million during the third quarter 2018.  
Effective August 2018, we consolidated our organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). Our operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization, our Chief Executive Officer, as the CODM, began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations. In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for our businesses. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. Our CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.  
This Form 10-Q does not include segment reporting information; however, we have included revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile. In order to understand our financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.  
On August 7, 2019 the Board of Directors approved a transition plan for our China manufacturing operations. In order to optimize the cost structure of the antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we will transition high-volume manufacturing from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period. Approximately $0.9 million of severance costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company eliminated 49 positions and recorded restructuring expense of $0.3 million. 
Revenues increased 28.2% and 9.7% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods primarily due to higher revenues for test and measurement products. Revenues for the test and measurement product line increased 103.6% and 73.6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to sales in connection with early deployments of 5G infrastructure in the U.S., Europe and Asia. For the three months ended September 30, 2019, revenues increased for the antenna product line by 10.7%, compared to the same period in 2018, based on increased revenues for intelligent transportation systems offset lower revenues for small cell antennas and for enterprise Wi-Fi applications. Antenna revenues declined by 5.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to decreased demand for small cell antennas and for enterprise Wi-Fi applications. The decline in revenues for small cell antennas is primarily due to lower demand from one customer, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. As a result of the unexpected U.S. restrictions on trading with Huawei, Huawei’s demand for our products declined because Huawei was not able to purchase other U.S. sourced components for their networks.  
The gross profit percentage increased by 8.6% and 8.0% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 because of a higher ratio of revenues from test and measurement products and because of higher gross profits for antenna products. Higher margin test and measurement products comprised 30.6% of the revenues in the third quarter 2019 compared to 19.3% of the revenues in the same period in 2018 and comprised 30.0% of the revenues in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to 18.9% for the same period in 2018. The gross profit percentage for the antenna product line increased by 4.4% and 4.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due to more favorable product mix and due to cost reductions.  
General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as cash-based incentive compensation expense increased by $0.8 million, equity-based compensation expense increased by $0.4 million and corporate expenses increased by $0.5 million, offsetting $0.5 million in reductions in executive management related to the reorganization in 2018.  


item4.txt
PCTEL, Inc.,  


part2.txt
We have a manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China and an engineering design center in Beijing, China. All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law. These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights. In order to optimize the cost structure of our antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we have engaged several contract manufacturers over the last several years to manufacture certain antennas and we are in the process of transitioning manufacturing of antenna products from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s entire full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period at an aggregate cost of approximately $0.9 million. These separation costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. We recognized restructuring expenses of $0.3 million during the third quarter ended September 30, 2019. We anticipate that the remaining charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020. We expect to make cash payments for employee separation costs during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020.  
We expect to retain the lease on our Tianjin facility for manufacturing of lower-volume, highly-customized antenna products and for administration of remaining China operations with a workforce of approximately 65 personnel until the end of the facility’s current lease term in October 2020. Thereafter we intend to continue such manufacturing activities to the extent that we are successful in negotiating an extension of the lease term at a reasonable cost.  


