item1.txt
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating  
profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations. In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the Company’s businesses. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $85 and $60 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $28 and $(9) for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the income statement and statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019. The Company commenced its assessment of Topic 842 in the second half of 2018 and developed a project plan to guide the implementation. The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date. The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements. The Company adopted this new guidance using the updated modified transition method allowed per ASU 2018-11 of Topic 842. Upon adoption on January 1, 2019,  
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  
The Company had $1.5 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $1.5 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. As of June 30, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble in doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company completed the closure of its Israeli subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2018. The Company repatriated the subsidiary’s remaining cash of $0.2 million during the second quarter of 2019. The foreign currency exchange impact related to the repatriation of these funds did not have a material impact on the financial statements.  
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, A or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All the investments at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.  
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $51 and $21 at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The goodwill is related to the test and measurement product line, not to the whole Company. The test and measurement product line is a reporting unit because the Company has discrete financial information necessary to perform goodwill impairment testing for this reporting unit under the accounting guidance. The Company evaluates the goodwill based on the cash flows for the test and measurement product line. The cash flows for the test and measurement product line are only prepared for testing goodwill and were not reviewed by the Company’s CODM for business planning purposes.  
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at June 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, work-in-process and finished goods. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.2 million and $0.9 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.2 million at June 30, 2019 and $3.3 million at December 31, 2018. 
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $1.4 million and $1.1 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $2.3 million and $1.8 million of stock compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  
The Company grants restricted shares as employee and director incentives. When service-based restricted stock is granted, the Company records deferred stock compensation within additional paid in capital, representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted shares are granted. The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares. These grants vest over various periods. During the first quarter 2019, the Company issued 190,159 service-based restricted stock awards to employees that vest in equal annual increments over three years.   
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $8. The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $2.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively. No service-based restricted shares vested during the three months ended June 30, 2018.  
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock primarily to certain new employees. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Outstanding stock options have either a seven-year or ten-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within 180 days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  
The performance period for the 2019 LTIP is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2021 and the participants are required to be in service at the determination date of the award following the end of the performance period in order to receive the award. Shares earned under the 2019 LTIP will be fully vested shares. Stock compensation expense is amortized over the performance period for these awards based on estimated achievement of the goal. At target, the total fair market of the award was $0.9 million based on the share price on $5.27 on the grant date. 


item2.txt
Our second quarter 2019 revenues were $23.5 million and increased by $1.9 million or 8.9% compared to revenues of $21.6 million for the same period in 2018. Second quarter 2019 revenues increased by $3.4 million or 82.0% to $7.5 million for the test and measurement product line compared to the second quarter 2018 and decreased by $1.5 million or 8.4% to $16.0 million for the antenna product line. Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas. Revenues increased for the test and measurement product line due to increased sales of 5G products. The gross profit of $10.7 million, increased by $2.9 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to both a higher product mix of test and measurement product line revenues and an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products. Primarily based on higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to an operating loss of $1.6 million during the second quarter 2018.  
Effective August 2018, we consolidated our organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). Our operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization, our Chief Executive Officer, as the CODM, began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations. In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for our businesses. All operating profit and cash flows are measured and managed at the enterprise level.  
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions. Our CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations. Each segment had its own general manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.  
This Form 10-Q does not include segment reporting information; however, we have included revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile. In order to understand our financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.  
On August 7, 2019 the Board of Directors approved a transition plan for our China manufacturing operations. In order to optimize the cost structure of the antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we will transition high-volume manufacturing from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period. Approximately $0.9 million of severance costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. We anticipate that these charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the third and fourth quarters of 2019. We expect the cash payments for employee separation costs to be made during the second half of 2019 and the first half of 2020. 
Revenues increased 8.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 and 1.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2019. For the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019, the decrease in revenues for the antenna product line of 8.4% and 11.7%, compared to the same periods in 2018, was due to lower sales for small cell antennas and for enterprise Wi-Fi applications. Revenues for the test and measurement product line increased 82.0% and 60.6% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due to sales of test equipment in connection with early deployments of 5G infrastructure in the U.S., Europe and Asia. 
The gross profit percentage increased by 9.4% and 7.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 because of a higher ratio of revenues from test and measurement products and because of higher gross profits for antenna products. Higher margin test and measurement products comprised 32.0% of the revenues in the second quarter 2019 compared to 19.2% of the revenues in the same period in 2018 and comprised 29.6% of the revenues in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 18.8% for the same period in 2018. The gross profit percentage for the antenna product line increased by 6.0% and 4.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due to more favorable product mix and due to cost reductions.  
General and administrative expenses increased by $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as cash-based incentive compensation expense increased $0.4 million, equity-based compensation expense increased $0.3 million and other corporate expenses increased by $0.1 million. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as cash-based incentive compensation expense increased by $0.6 million, equity-based compensation expense increased by $0.4 million and corporate expenses increased by $0.3 million, offsetting $0.2 million in reductions in executive management related to the Reorganization in 2018.  


item4.txt
Not applicable. 


part2.txt
We have a manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China and an engineering design center in Beijing, China. All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law. These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights. In order to optimize the cost structure of our antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we have engaged several contract manufacturers over the last several years to manufacture certain antennas and we are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing of antenna products from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs. It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s entire full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period at an aggregate cost of approximately $0.9 million. These separation costs will be paid in cash. Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million. We anticipate that these charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the third and fourth quarter of 2019. We expect to make cash payments for employee separation costs during the second half of 2019 and the first half of 2020.  
We expect to retain the lease on our Tianjin facility for manufacturing of lower-volume, highly-customized antenna products and for administration of remaining China operations with a workforce of approximately 65 personnel until the end of the facility’s current lease term in October 2020, and thereafter intends to continue such manufacturing activities to the extent that we are successful in negotiating an extension of the lease term at a reasonable cost.  


