fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, revenue decreased by $852 due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience.
The Company reviews warranty and related claims activity and records provisions, as necessary.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


