fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
Revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 for equipment sales was $6,524 and $20,396, respectively and for software, licenses, etc.
Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience.
The Company reviews warranty and related claims activity and records provisions, as necessary.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
We also launched many new products including Collaborate Space, Converge Amplifier and wireless microphone systems in 537-563 MHz range at our industry’s largest trade show in North America.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 45% during the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 62% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
Our competitors vary within each product category.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Although we are currently in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, there can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to satisfy this rule.


