•The GMG focuses on sales primarily to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in the U.S.;
Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, all of our Canadian operations are included in IMG. We have recast our revenue by market group for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, to present them on a consistent basis with the current year.
•The IMG focuses on sales primarily to all prospects and customers outside of the U.S.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The increase in deferred revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter. Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue since December 31, 2018. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $271 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of September 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $87.7 million through 2023.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger. The acquisition expands our footprint in corporate social responsibility and employee engagement and enhances our position as a leader in providing solutions to both nonprofit organizations and for-profit companies committed to addressing social issues. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, net of closing adjustments. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, YourCause has become a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of YourCause have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded insignificant measurement period adjustments to the estimated fair value of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed following the receipt of new information. The adjustments resulted in an increase to net working capital, excluding deferred revenue, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.
Net cash used in investing activities of $153.0 million increased by $68.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018. We used $34.5 million for software development costs, which was up $7.9 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily related to our innovative cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.2 million and $63.3 million, respectively. The inclusion of YourCause contributed to the increases in recurring revenue as the acquisition was completed on January 2, 2019. We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018. These continued decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
The increases in general and administrative expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $5.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in general and administrative expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was rent expense of $1.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $2.0 million. The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause. The increase in rent expense was related to the lease of our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
We continue to make investments to improve market coverage and drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.4 million and $15.7 million, respectively and increases in allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $1.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was an increase in commissions expense of $2.2 million. The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019. These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of YourCause. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales. The increases in allocated corporate costs were primarily driven by investments made in corporate IT, including cyber security and increases in headcount.
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.