Total rent expense was $5.0 million and $4.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $9.0 million and $8.1 million, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Contract assets increased during the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed. The increase in deferred revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $217 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
We generally recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, data enrichment engagements and benchmarking studies at a point in time (upon delivery).
One-time services and other revenue primarily consists of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services. 
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
•The IMG focuses on sales to all prospects and customers outside of North America.
The decreases in our effective income tax rates during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of June 30, 2018, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $48.2 million through 2023.During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks. We used $16.4 million for software development costs, which was up $2.7 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our next generation cloud-based solutions, and development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above. This is a trend we expect to continue in the near term as we complete the transition of our solution portfolio to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $31.6 million and $57.8 million, respectively. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts. The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $10.7 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017.
We also spent $9.6 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the six months ended June 30, 2018, which was up $3.9 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, commissions expense of $1.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively, and advertising and marketing costs of $0.8 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Compensation costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher, as well as annual merit-based salary increases. We intend to make additional investments to increase our direct sales force beginning in the second half of 2018. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $41.4 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of Reeher. 
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.1 million and $5.2 million, respectively, third-party contractor expenses of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively, and acquisition-related integration costs of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively. The increases in compensation costs were driven by a combination of higher stock-based compensation, salaries and employee benefits, primarily related to the inclusion of JustGiving personnel. The increases in third-party contractor expenses and acquisition-related integration costs were also primarily related to the inclusion of JustGiving.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above. Productivity gains also contributed to the decreases in cost of one-time services and other.
Interest expense increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of JustGiving in October 2017 and Reeher in April 2018. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses. During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.