Total rent expense was $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, was also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income.
Contract assets remained relatively unchanged during the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in deferred revenue during the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second and fourth quarters as compared to our first and third quarters. The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $123 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, corporations, education institutions, healthcare institutions and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
We generally recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, data enrichment engagements and benchmarking studies at a point in time (upon delivery).
One-time services and other revenue primarily consists of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services. 
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2018.Net cash used in investing activities of $17.9 million increased by $8.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $28.8 million. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. 
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
Sales, marketing and customer success expense as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the declines in analytics and consulting revenue coupled with the larger reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.2 million. To a much lesser extent, the inclusion of AcademicWorks and JustGiving contributed to the increase in recurring revenue. The favorable impact from subscriptions was partially offset by a $5.4 million decrease in maintenance revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used net cash of $5.0 million for a business acquisition while we did not make any similar investments in during the same period in 2017. We used $7.1 million for software development costs, which was relatively consistent with cash spent in the same period in 2017.
We also spent $5.8 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which was up $3.1 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increase in sales, marketing, and customer success expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs, commissions expense and advertising and marketing costs of $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Compensation costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount associated with the increase in direct sales, marketing, and customer success efforts of our growing operations. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $11.8 million in cash flow from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $28.8 million, returned $5.8 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $12.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above. Productivity gains also contributed to the decrease in cost of one-time services and other.
The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs of $4.2 million driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue as well as the inclusion of AcademicWorks and JustGiving.