Total rent expense was $6.2 million and $3.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $16.2 million and $11.9 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Contract assets increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed. The increase in deferred revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $259 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
We generally recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, data enrichment engagements and benchmarking studies at a point in time (upon delivery).
One-time services and other revenue primarily consists of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services. 
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
•The IMG focuses on sales to all prospects and customers outside of North America.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. The discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of Reeher LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Reeher”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement. The acquisition expands our fundraising performance management capabilities and is intended to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $41.3 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, Reeher has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of Reeher have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks. We used $26.6 million for software development costs, which was up $6.0 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
SKY cloud platform and is another demonstration of our ability to rapidly build new solutions to further address customer needs and grow our addressable markets.
We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. The increases in research and development expense dollars during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $1.8 million and $5.6 million, respectively, and third-party contractor expenses of $1.9 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of JustGiving's and Reeher's engineering resources. The incremental third-party contractor expenses were intended to help drive our solution development efforts, including our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits. Research and development expense as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively similar during both periods.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above. This is a trend we expect to continue in the near term as we complete the transition of our solution portfolio to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.4 million and $84.2 million, respectively. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and their impacts are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts. The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $15.9 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017. The decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
Second, at our 2018 annual user conference, bbcon, we announced our new Cloud Solution for Higher Education with the introduction of a new Education Management portfolio along with stewardship management and guided fundraising capabilities tailored for higher education. This is another exciting next step forward in our continued commitment to providing comprehensive, purpose-built cloud solutions that drive digital transformation. This comprehensive cloud solution will enable customers to manage the complete student lifecycle from admissions to alumni engagement. Like our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities, our Cloud Solution for Higher Education takes advantage of the rapid innovation, modern user experience, and enhanced capabilities made possible by our Blackbaud 
The decrease in recurring gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily the result of incremental data center costs and, to a lesser extent, incremental amortization of software development costs, as growth in costs of recurring revenue outpaced the growth in related revenue.
Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits. As part of this initiative, we announced our first jointly-developed solution suite called Nonprofit Resource Management™, which is a breakthrough in helping nonprofits effectively source, track, distribute, and measure the impact of their resources across core business processes from managing the distribution of material goods to financial and human capital distribution. Nonprofit Resource Management is currently in development in collaboration with early adopters. The first capability set, Goods Distribution, is expected to be released in the summer of 2019, with program design and others capabilities to follow. The solution will be sold jointly through Blackbaud and Microsoft partner and sales channels and will work seamlessly with Blackbaud solutions providing a connected experience for the customer. This is another step forward in an evolving partnership between Blackbaud and Microsoft to jointly-develop, co-market and co-sell innovative software technology that will propel the industry forward.
Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term. We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value. We continue to innovate and acquire solutions that create value for our customers, such as our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits with Microsoft, as discussed above.
We also spent $12.9 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, which was up $4.5 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.2 million and commissions expense of $2.1 million. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.9 million, commissions expense of $5.0 million, and advertising and marketing costs of $2.1 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts that are currently underway to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making similar investments during the fourth quarter of 2018 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to fuel revenue growth in late 2019 and more fully in 2020. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher. The increases in commission expense were primarily driven by increases in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.