•The GMG focuses on sales primarily to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in the U.S.;
The modest decrease in deferred revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to less customer contract renewals in our first quarter due to the timing of customer budget cycles. Historically, we have an increase in customer contract renewals near the beginning of our third quarter resulting in lower deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $131 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
•The IMG focuses on sales primarily to all prospects and customers outside of the U.S.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $111.4 million through 2023.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger. The acquisition expands our footprint in corporate social responsibility and employee engagement and enhances our position as a leader in providing solutions to both nonprofit organizations and for-profit companies committed to addressing social issues. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the agreement and plan of merger. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, YourCause has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of YourCause have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.Net cash used in investing activities of $121.9 million increased by $103.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $5.0 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018. We used $11.3 million for software development costs, which was up $4.2 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions, including our Church Management Solution, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $196.3 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.8 million. The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause contributed to the increase in recurring revenue as both acquisitions were completed after March 31, 2018. We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based professional services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue of $4.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in maintenance revenue was primarily related to our efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $1.2 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was down $4.6 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.0 million, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based professional services as opposed to one-time.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased modestly during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to less customer contract renewals due to the timing of customer budget cycles. Historically, we have an increase in customer contract renewals near the beginning of our third quarter resulting in lower deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to a modest increase in onsite training sales.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of Reeher in April 2018 and YourCause in January 2019. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.5 million and commissions expense of $1.3 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of Reeher and YourCause. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.