Total rent expense as determined under ASC 840 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $5.5 million and $9.9 million, respectively.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, all of our Canadian operations are included in IMG. We have recast our revenue by market group for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, to present them on a consistent basis with the current year.
•The GMG focuses on sales primarily to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in the U.S.;
•The IMG focuses on sales primarily to all prospects and customers outside of the U.S.
The increase in deferred revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter. Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 has also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue since December 31, 2018. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $220 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $106.5 million through 2023.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an insignificant measurement period adjustment to the estimated fair value of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed following the receipt of new information. The adjustment resulted in an increase to net working capital, excluding deferred revenue, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.Net cash used in investing activities of $138.5 million increased by $67.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018. We used $23.2 million for software development costs, which was up $6.8 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $20.4 million and $42.2 million, respectively. The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause contributed to the increases in recurring revenue as both acquisitions were completed after March 31, 2018. We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.7 million and $9.2 million, respectively during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increases in research and development expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively. The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of Reeher's and YourCause's engineering resources. The increase in research and development expense was partially offset by an increase in the amount of software development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance. We expect that the amount of software development costs capitalized will continue to increase modestly in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.8 million and $11.3 million, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was an increase in commissions expense of $1.8 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of Reeher and YourCause. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $174.0 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause.
We also spent $6.4 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the six months ended June 30, 2019, which was down $3.2 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.3 million and $6.3 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. Our acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $3.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.