Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support. 
The market for machine tools is international in scope. We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines. Additionally, approximately 14% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Asia, where we generally sell more of our entry-level, lower-priced machines, and where we also encounter greater price pressures. 
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 
Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $70.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.9 million, or 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.  
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the United Kingdom and Italy. Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth. 
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of an 8% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions. Sales of service parts increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe. Service fees increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Americas. 
Orders. Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $79.9 million, an increase of $16.6 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. This increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines. European orders for the second quarter increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 15% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. This increase in orders mainly resulted from increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom, as well as increased customer demand of machine tool components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary LCM.  Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 5%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. Excluding the favorable currency impact, Asian Pacific orders increased slightly due primarily to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, compared to $17.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected an increased sales volume of entry-level Hurco and Milltronics vertical milling machines, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $13.3 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $11.7 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was largely driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased spending for trade shows and exhibitions. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.0 million, compared to $5.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions. 
Other Expense, Net. Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.3 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were $138.9 million, an increase of $31.9 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $9.3 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 23%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. European sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 34%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom. Asian Pacific sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first six months of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth. 
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the first six months of fiscal 2018, exclusive of a 9% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions. Sales of service parts increased in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe. Service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Americas. 
Orders. Orders for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were a record $156.8 million, an increase of $32.4 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $10.5 million, or 8%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. This increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines. For the first six months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders in the first six months was driven predominately by increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, Italy and France, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories. Asian Pacific orders for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 7% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was mostly due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, compared to $29.7 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The increase in gross profit year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $13.1 million, compared to $6.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions. 
Other Expense, Net. Other expense in the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.1 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was 48%, compared to 31% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of these charges, earnings per diluted share would have been $0.43 higher than the earnings per diluted share we reported for the first six months of fiscal 2018.  
At April 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $76.4 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017. Approximately 72% of the $76.4 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations and is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 
At April 30, 2018, we had $1.6 million of borrowings outstanding under our China credit facility. We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities. At April 30, 2018, we had an aggregate of $19.8 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of April 30, 2018, we had 27 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.9 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
 ·The risks of our international operations; 
 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 
 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 
 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 
 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 
 ·Impairment of our assets; 
 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 
 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 
 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 
 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel; and 
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
