Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and application support. 
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $74.2 million, an increase of $5.8 million, or 8%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.5 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for vertical milling machines 
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes, and decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy and France. 
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China. 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%. The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools reflected increased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S., India and China, partially offset by decreased shipments of Takumi bridge mills in China and Hurco vertical milling machines in Italy, France and Germany. Sales of computer control systems and software for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased sales in the U.S. and France. Sales of service parts increased by 18% during the first quarter of 2019, compared to the corresponding prior year period, reflecting increased aftermarket sales of service parts across all three regions and product lines. Sales of service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 6%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket service of Hurco products in Germany. 
Orders. Orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $68.0 million, a decrease of $8.9 million, or 12%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.8 million, or 4%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to increased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines. 
European orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM. 
Asian Pacific orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 18%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 8% when translating foreign orders to U.S. Dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China, partially offset by increased customer demand for Hurco machines in Southeast Asia. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $22.1 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $13.9 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $13.0 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $0.5 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $8.2 million compared to $7.2 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of vertical milling machines. 
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $0.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 primarily due to foreign currency gains on transactions denominated in foreign currencies experienced in fiscal 2019 compared to foreign currency losses experienced in fiscal 2018. 
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 27%, compared to 61% in the corresponding prior year period. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to a one-time provisional adjustment related to the Tax Reform Act that was enacted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The Tax Reform Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, implemented a territorial tax system and imposed a tax on the deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the changes in tax law, a one-time non-cash tax charge of $0.4 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, a one-time charge of $2.5 million related to the transition tax on deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign income was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. 
At January 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $69.8 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018. Approximately 67% of the $69.8 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations, is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities and is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 
Working capital was $201.1 million at January 31, 2019, compared to $194.6 million at October 31, 2018. The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and in accrued payroll and employee benefits. 
In December 2018, in connection with our entry into the 2018 Credit Agreement, (1) using cash on hand, we repaid in full the $1.4 million outstanding under, and terminated, our credit facility in China and (2) we terminated our United Kingdom credit facility. As a result, as of January 31, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement.  
At January 31, 2019, we had no debt or borrowings under any of our credit facilities. At January 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $41.7 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of January 31, 2019, we had 25 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $687,000. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
 (1)The Company does not have any publicly announced share repurchase plans or programs. 
 (2)Represents shares of our common stock that were withheld to satisfy the income tax obligations of recipients of awards of 37,999 restricted shares and earned performance shares granted under the 2008 Plan and 9,852 restricted shares granted under the 2016 Equity Plan in connection with the vesting of such awards. 
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
