Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support. 
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 
Three Months Ended July 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended July 31, 2017 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 55%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India. 
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of a 3% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions. Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France. Service fees increased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in the United Kingdom and the Americas. 
Orders. Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $76.0 million, an increase of $13.4 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $2.0 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. This increase in orders resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France and the United Kingdom, as well as increased customer demand for machine tool components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a slight unfavorable currency impact of less than 1%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. This increase in Asian Pacific orders was due primarily to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia, as well as increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $17.5 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $12.4 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.1 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $9.4 million compared to $5.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Other (Income) Expense, Net. Other (income) expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $217.6 million, an increase of $49.9 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $11.1 million, or 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines. European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 33%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 40%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India. 
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine 
Exclusive of a 7% favorable currency impact, the year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools, computer control systems and software, service parts and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by increased demand of vertical milling and lathe machines, aftermarket sales and service from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions. 
Orders. Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $232.8 million, an increase of $45.9 million, or 25%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $12.3 million, or 7%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. For the nine months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 34%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in European orders in the nine months ended July 31, 2018 was driven predominantly by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories. Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 27%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was mostly due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, partially offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $47.2 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $41.4 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $35.3 million, or 21% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $1.5 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $22.5 million compared to $11.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Other (Income) Expense, Net. Other (income) expense, net in the nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.7 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 
Income Taxes. We recorded income tax expense during the nine months of fiscal 2018 of $8.7 million compared to $3.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was 40%, compared to 29% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform that was enacted on December 22, 2017. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of these charges, earnings per diluted share would have been $0.43 higher than the earnings per diluted share we reported for the nine months of fiscal 2018.  
At July 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77.0 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017. Approximately 64% of the $77.0 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations, is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities and is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 
Working capital was $189.5 million at July 31, 2018, compared to $175.5 million at October 31, 2017. The increase in working capital was mostly driven by an increase in cash and inventories, partially offset by a reduction in accounts receivable and an increase in accounts payable. 
At July 31, 2018, we had $1.5 million of borrowings outstanding under our China credit facility. We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities. At July 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of $19.5 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of July 31, 2018, we had 23 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
 ·The risks of our international operations; 
 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 
 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 
 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 
 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 
 ·Impairment of our assets; 
 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 
 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 
 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 
 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel; and 
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. 
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
