Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support. 
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 
Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 26% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics). 
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy. 
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand of Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in China, and included a notable increase in sales of Hurco machines in Southeast Asia. 
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 
The increase in sales of Computerized Machine Tools during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to increased customer demand from customers across all three regions and for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics). 
Orders. Orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $76.9 million, an increase of $15.9 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.0 million, or 8%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 
Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 1%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. This increase was primarily attributable to slight increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines. 
European orders for the first quarter increased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 13% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was driven primarily by increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, Italy and France. 
Asian Pacific orders for the first quarter increased by 46%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was driven primarily by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $12.6 million, or 26% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $13.0 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $11.2 million, or 23% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $0.7 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 
Operating Income. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $7.2 million compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.2 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 primarily due to foreign currency gains on transactions denominated in foreign currencies experienced in fiscal 2018 compared to foreign currency losses experienced in fiscal 2017. 
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 61% compared to 38% in the corresponding prior year period. The increase in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to one-time provisional adjustments related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) that was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Reform Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, implemented a territorial tax system, and imposed a tax on the deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the change in the tax law, a one-time non-cash tax charge of $0.4 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, a one-time charge of $2.5 million related to the transition tax on the deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign income was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which amount is subject to adjustment during the measurement period of up to one year following the December 2017 enactment date, as provided by recent SEC guidance. The impact of these charges increased our effective rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of these charges, earnings per diluted share would have been $0.43 higher than the earnings per diluted share we reported for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. 
At January 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $80.2 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017. Approximately 62% of the $80.2 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations and is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities, subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 
At January 31, 2018, we had $1.6 million of borrowings outstanding under our China credit facility. We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities. At January 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of $19.9 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. 
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of January 31, 2018, we had 27 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $1.0 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until it has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 
 ·The risks of our international operations; 
 ·The limited number of our manufacturing sources; 
 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 
 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 
 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 
 ·Impairment of our assets; 
 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 
 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 
 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 
 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel; and 
 (1)The Company does not have any publicly announced share repurchase plans or programs. 
 (2)Represents shares of our common stock that were withheld to satisfy the income tax obligations of recipients of awards of 32,153 restricted shares and earned performance shares granted under the 2008 Plan and 4,916 restricted shares granted under the 2016 Equity Plan in connection with the vesting of such awards. 
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
