 As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, Avnet has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances. For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar state laws, Avnet is and may be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination on or from certain of its current or former properties, and at off-site locations where the Company disposed of wastes in the past. Such laws may impose joint and several liability. Typically, however, the costs for clean up at such sites are allocated among potentially responsible parties based upon each party’s relative contribution to the contamination, and other factors.  
 Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure. Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.  
 Item 1A.Risk Factors  
   ·    an industry down-cycle in semiconductors; 
   ·    relationships with key suppliers and allocations of products by suppliers; 
   ·    adverse effects on the Company’s supply chain, shipping costs, third-party service providers, customers and suppliers, including as a result of issues caused by natural and weather-related disasters; 
   ·    risks related to cyber-attacks and the Company’s information systems, including related to current or future implementations; 
   ·    general economic and business conditions (domestic and foreign) affecting Avnet's financial performance and, indirectly, Avnet's credit ratings, debt covenant compliance, and liquidity and access to financing; and 
   ·    legislative or regulatory changes affecting Avnet’s businesses. 
 Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.  
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $1.95 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program. The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.  
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
