 See notes to consolidated financial statements.  
 See notes to consolidated financial statements.  
 See notes to consolidated financial statements.  
 See notes to consolidated financial statements.  
 1. Basis of presentation and new accounting pronouncements  
 Certain reclassifications have been made in prior periods and the fiscal year to date current periods to conform to the current period presentation.  
 In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU 2017-12”), which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the qualification and application of the hedge accounting compared to current GAAP. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2017-12 on its consolidated financial 
statements.  
 In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2017-07, Compensation–Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (“ASU 2017-07”). The new guidance requires the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be presented in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, and allows only the service cost component to be eligible for capitalization in assets. Other components of the net periodic benefit cost are to be presented separately from the line item that includes the service cost and outside of any subtotal of operating income, and the line item must be appropriately described. If a separate line item is not used, the line item used in the income statement to present the other components of net benefit cost must be disclosed. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within that annual period, with early adoption permitted. The amendment is to be applied retrospectively. The new guidance primarily impacts the income statement presentation of net periodic benefit cost and the Company does not believe adoption of this standard will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements including income before income taxes, but the reported amount of operating income will decrease compared to historical measurements of operating income. Refer to Note 9, “Pension Plan,” for further information on the components of net periodic benefit cost.  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). The update requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets for leases with lease terms greater than 12 months. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The update will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.  
 In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended (“ASU 2014-09”), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principles of ASU 2014-09 are to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. Application of the guidance in ASU 2014-09 is expected to require more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process compared to existing GAAP. ASU 2014-09 is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.   
 The Company expects to adopt the requirements of ASU 2014-09 using retrospective adoption to each prior reporting period presented. The company has established an implementation team inclusive of external advisors engaged to assist in evaluating potential differences compared to existing GAAP. The Company has identified its revenue streams and is currently assessing each stream for potential impacts from the adoption of ASU 2014-09. For the revenue streams assessed, the Company does not anticipate a material impact in the timing or amount of revenue recognized.   
 In August 2017, the Company acquired Dragon Innovation, Inc. (“Dragon”), a provider of manufacturing logistics services. The impact of this acquisition was not material to the Company’s consolidated balance sheets or statements of operations.  
 3. Discontinued operations and gain on sale  
 In February 2017, the Company completed the sale of its Technology Solutions (“TS”) business to Tech Data Corporation (the “Buyer”). Included in the gain on sale recorded upon completion of the sale were estimates for certain income taxes due on the gain and additional cash consideration expected from the Buyer related to a closing date net working capital sales price adjustment (the “closing date adjustment”). The Company is finalizing the closing date adjustment with the Buyer as provided for in the sales agreement and has included an estimate of this amount as primary component of the $305.1 million of prepaid and other current assets as of March 31, 2018. The final closing date adjustment, as determined through the established process outlined in the sales agreement, may be materially different from the Company’s estimate. The impact of any probable changes in the closing date adjustment will be recorded as an adjustment to the gain on sale from discontinued operations in the period such change occurs. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company made certain adjustments to the closing date estimates, which were not material and have been included as an adjustment to the gain on sale of discontinued operations classified within “Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   
 The income taxes associated with the gain will be impacted by the final geographic allocation of the sales price, which must be agreed to with the Buyer after determination of the closing date adjustment, as required in the sales agreement, and may be materially different from the Company’s estimates. The impact of any changes in estimated income taxes on the gain will be recorded as an adjustment to the gain on sale from discontinued operations in the period such change in estimate occurs. The Company currently expects the closing date adjustment to be finalized by the first half of fiscal 2019 and the income tax on the gain to be finalized by the end of fiscal 2019.  
 The Company received 2.8 million shares of the Buyer’s common stock at closing (the “Shares”), which has been recorded within “Marketable securities” on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had 0.9 million shares remaining, which had market value of $75.1 million. Unrealized and realized gains or losses due to changes in fair value based upon Level 1 quoted active market prices of the Shares are recorded in “Other income (expense), net” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The sales agreement includes time based contractual restrictions related to the Company’s sale of the Shares and as such, the Company entered into economic hedges to reduce the Company’s exposure to price fluctuations of the Shares during the restricted period, which fixes the net amount that the Company will realize upon the sale of the Shares. The Company records changes in fair value related to the economic share price hedges within “Other income (expense), net”, offsetting the changes in fair value of the underlying Shares. During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company sold 1.9 million Shares, the net proceeds of which have been included in “Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations.”  
 In connection with the sale of the TS business, the Company entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”), pursuant to which the Buyer will pay the Company to provide certain information technology, distribution, facilities, finance and human resources related services for various periods of time depending upon the services not to exceed approximately two years from the closing date. Expenses incurred by the Company to provide such services under the TSA are classified within selling, general and administrative expenses and amounts billed to the Buyer to provide such services are classified as a reduction of such expenses. As of March 31, 2018, the Buyer has formally terminated substantially all TSA services outside of certain minor information technology services and all remaining TSA services are expected to be terminated by the first half of fiscal 2019.  
 Included within selling, general and administrative expenses of discontinued operations was $8.3 million and $34.9 million of estimated corporate expenses, excluding general overhead, specific to or benefiting the TS business for the third quarter and nine months ended April 1, 2017, respectively.   
 The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 substantially all relates to settlement losses associated with the Company’s pension plan due to former TS business employees requesting and receiving distributions from the Company’s pension plan during fiscal 2018 and the closing date adjustments discussed above. Refer to Note 9, “Pension plan,” for further information on the pension settlement losses.  
 The following table presents the change in goodwill by reportable segment for the nine months ended March 31, 2018.   
 As of December 30, 2017, the $181.4 million of goodwill related to the Electronic Components Americas core reporting unit (the “Americas”) primarily represented goodwill allocated from the acquisitions of Bell Micro, G2 and Round 2, all of which occurred prior to fiscal 2011. The allocation of goodwill to the Americas represented the expected synergies the Americas would realize from these historical acquisitions. Once goodwill has been assigned to a reporting unit, for accounting purposes, the goodwill is no longer directly associated with the underlying acquisitions that the goodwill originated from, but rather the reporting unit to which it has been allocated. In accordance with ASC 350, the Company has been monitoring the Americas each quarter for the potential need to perform an interim goodwill impairment test.  
 In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, in conjunction with the commencement of the Company’s annual long-term planning process, it became apparent that lower cash flows are expected from the Americas over such planning horizon compared to prior year long-term cash flow expectations. As a result of the lower expected cash flows as well as certain other factors, the Company concluded that an interim quantitative goodwill impairment test for the Americas was necessary in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.   
 In assessing the Americas goodwill for impairment in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company was required to make significant judgments related to the fair value of the Americas. The Company used a combination of an income approach, specifically a discounted cash flow methodology, and a market approach to estimate the fair value of the Americas. The discounted cash flow methodology includes market participant assumptions for, among other factors, forecasted sales, gross profit margins, operating expenses, cash flows, perpetual growth rates and long-term discount rates, all of which required judgments and estimates by management which are inherently uncertain. The market approach methodology required significant assumptions related to comparable transactions, market multiples, capital structure and control premiums.   
 As a result of the impairment testing and related fair value estimate of the Americas in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company impaired all of the goodwill in the Americas and recorded $181.4 million of goodwill impairment expense, which is classified within goodwill impairment expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   
 The following table presents the Company’s acquired intangible assets at March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017, respectively.   
 Bank credit facilities and other consists primarily of various committed and uncommitted lines of credit and other forms of bank debt with financial institutions utilized primarily to support the working capital requirements of the Company including its foreign operations.  
 The Company has an accounts receivable securitization program (the “Program”) in the United States with a group of financial institutions to allow the Company to transfer, on an ongoing revolving basis, an undivided interest in a designated pool of trade accounts receivable, to provide security or collateral for borrowings up to a maximum of $400 million. The Program does not qualify for off balance sheet accounting treatment and any borrowings under the Program are recorded as debt in the consolidated balance sheets. Under the Program, the Company legally sells and isolates certain U.S. trade accounts receivable, into a wholly owned and consolidated bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. Such receivables, which are recorded within “Receivables” in the consolidated balance sheets, totaled $774.8 million and $807.5 million at March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017, respectively. The Program contains certain covenants relating to the quality of the receivables sold. The Program also requires the Company to maintain certain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios, which the Company was in compliance with as of March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017. The Program expires in August 2018 and as a result the Company has classified outstanding balances as short-term debt as of August 2017. Interest on borrowings is calculated using a base rate or a commercial paper rate plus a spread of 0.40% with a facility fee of 0.40%.  
 As of March 31, 2018, the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s total debt was $1.59 billion and $1.63 billion, respectively. At July 1, 2017, the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s total debt was $1.78 billion and $1.85 billion, respectively. Fair value for the public notes was estimated based upon quoted market prices and for other forms of debt fair value approximates carrying value due to the market based variable nature of the interest rates on those debt facilities.  
 Many of the Company’s subsidiaries purchase and sell products in currencies other than their functional currencies. This subjects the Company to the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company reduces this risk by utilizing natural hedging (e.g., offsetting receivables and payables in the same foreign currency) as well as by creating offsetting positions through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily forward foreign exchange contracts typically with maturities of less than 60 days (“economic hedges”), but no longer than one year. The Company continues to have exposure to foreign currency risks to the extent they are not economically hedged. The Company adjusts any economic hedges to fair value through the consolidated statements of operations primarily within “other income (expense), net.” The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are based upon Level 2 criteria under the ASC 820 fair value hierarchy, are classified in the captions “other current assets” or “accrued expenses and other,” as applicable, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017. The Company’s master netting and other similar arrangements with various financial institutions related to derivative financial instruments allow for the right of offset. The Company’s policy is to present derivative financial instruments with the same counterparty as either a net asset or liability when the right of offset exists.  
 The above table excludes approximately $35.0 million of loss for the first nine months of fiscal 2017, of derivative financial instrument losses in other income (expenses), net, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments purchased to economically hedge the British Pound purchase price of the PF acquisition.  
 7. Commitments and contingencies  
 As of March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, the Company had aggregate estimated liabilities of $14.2 million, classified within accrued expenses and other for such compliance-related matters that were reasonably estimable as of such dates.  
 During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a provisional expense to account for the deferred tax impacts of the Act, which remained unchanged as of March 31, 2018. The estimates related to the transition tax and deferred taxes are provisional and may change as the Company continues to analyze the impacts of the Act.  
 During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, the Company’s effective tax rate of 25.7% was favorably impacted primarily by (i) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions, partially offset by (ii) net increases to valuation allowances against deferred tax assets that were deemed unrealizable and (iii) the impact of non-deductible acquisition related expenses.   
 The Company contributed $12.0 million to the Plans during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and expects to make an additional contribution to the Plans of $4.0 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.  
 The Plans meet the definition of defined benefit plans and as a result, the Company applies ASC 715 pension accounting to the Plans. The Plans, however, are cash balance plans that are similar in nature to defined contribution plans in that a participant’s benefit is defined in terms of stated account balances. The cash balance plans provide the Company with the benefit of applying any earnings on the Plans’ investments beyond the fixed return provided to participants, toward the Company’s future cash funding obligations.  
 Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, to operating expenses during the third quarters and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 were substantially all related to net periodic pension costs including recognition of actuarial losses and amortization of prior service credits.  
 In connection with the sale of the TS business, a significant number of former employees became terminated vested employees under the Plan. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the aggregate amount of former employee withdrawals from the Plan exceeded the pension accounting settlement threshold for fiscal 2018, which required a settlement expense under ASC 715 pension accounting. As a result, the Company recognized a $4.9 million and $18.9 million of pension settlement expenses before taxes in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, classified within income (loss) from discontinued operations.  
 In November 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s existing share repurchase program to authorize the repurchase up of to $1.95 billion of common stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors such as share price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and prevailing market conditions. During the third quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 1.7 million and 5.3 million shares, respectively, under this program for a total cost of $70.0 million and $209.5 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $389.6 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization.  
 In February 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.19 per common share and dividend payments of $22.6 million were made in March 2018. During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, the Company paid dividends of $0.55 per common share and $66.2 million in total.  
 11. Earnings per share  
 See Note 3 for additional information on income (loss) from discontinued operations.  
 For the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, the diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share as the effects of 939,722 and 1,195,935 potential common shares, respectively, would be anti-dilutive.  
 12. Additional cash flow information  
 (2)Includes sales from the United States of $1.18 billion and $1.23 billion for the third quarters ended March 31, 2018, and April 1, 2017, respectively. Includes sales from the United States of $3.40 billion and $3.56 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
 (4)Includes sales from China (including Hong Kong), Taiwan and Singapore of $645.3 million, $616.7 million and $231.6 million, respectively, for the third quarter ended March 31, 2018, and $1.94 billion, $1.99 billion and $677.8 million, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Includes sales from China (including Hong Kong), Taiwan and Singapore of $562.9 million, $486.9 million and $237.1 million, respectively, for the third quarter ended April 1, 2017, and $1.80 billion, $1.67 billion and $690.1 million, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.   
 (1)Includes property, plant and equipment, net, of $265.6 million and $289.1 million as of March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017, respectively, in the United States.  
 (2)Includes property, plant and equipment, net, of $105.4 million, $50.6 million and $44.2 million in Germany, UK and Belgium, respectively, as of March 31, 2018, and $85.6 million, $52.1 million and $39.8 million in Germany, UK and Belgium, respectively, as of July 1, 2017.   
 Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure. Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.  
   ·    legislative or regulatory changes affecting Avnet’s businesses. 
