fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million.
The remaining net currency loss of $6.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018.
The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


