fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the second quarter of 2017.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2018 decreased to 3,783 when compared to total unit sales of 3,904 in the second quarter of 2017.
Outdoor and aviation segment revenue increases were driven by increased sales across most product lines within each segment.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions.
Research and development expense increased $14.5 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.


