fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.
The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, and not significantly different for the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $0.3 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against Taiwan Dollar and weakening against the British Pound Sterling, offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro, within the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.9% against the Taiwan Dollar and weakened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $5.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.9% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $7.8 million.
The remaining net currency gain of $1.1 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


