fls.txt
Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements, including those with regards to results of operations, liquidity or the Company’s effective tax rate and the related impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”), are based upon reasonable assumptions, the expectations may not be attained or there may be material deviation.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
For a nominal portion of our contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $3.2 as of January 1, 2018.
For these such contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company has begun evaluating ASU 2016‑02, including the review of the necessary changes to our existing processes and controls and the implementation of a new system that will facilitate the adoption of this new standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
ASU 2018-02 may be applied either in the period of adoption or on a retrospective basis to any period in which the impacts of the Tax Act are recognized.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replace certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
For the contracts recognized over time, we typically record revenue using the input method, based on the materials and labor costs incurred to date relative to the contract’s total estimated costs.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
The reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.
The Company accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as a cost to fulfill our promise to transfer control of the related product, including any such costs incurred after the customer has obtained control of the goods.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018.
Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs.
Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of March 31, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Earnings per share is determined after the impact of the noncontrolling interests’ share in net income of the Company.
On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program.


item4.txt
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


