The condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the related condensed consolidated statements of income and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the related condensed consolidated statements of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Amphenol Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Amphenol”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”).
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
For a nominal portion of our contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $3.2 as of January 1, 2018.
For these contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
While the Company continues to evaluate the impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the actual impact of the standard will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio at adoption.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11, and will recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2019.
The amendments also expand the disclosure requirements regarding the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements, in which entities will be required to present a reconciliation for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replaced certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
For each contract, the promise to transfer the control of the products, each of which is individually distinct, is considered to be the identified performance obligation.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
For the contracts recognized over time, we typically record revenue using the input method, based on the materials and labor costs incurred to date relative to the contract’s total estimated costs.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.