item1.txt
ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
As a result of the adoption the Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, as the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 during the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (applied in the period of adoption), and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is consistent with the underlying book method.
The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standards in fiscal 2019 using the proposed optional transition method and is currently in the process of reviewing lease and other service based contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls.
The Company has elected to adopt certain practical expediencies provided under ASC 842, including the option to not apply lease recognition for short-term leases, reassessment of whether expired or existing contracts contain leases, reassessment of lease classification for expired or existing leases, applying single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations, reassessing initial direct costs and combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The Company recognizes revenue on its service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company.
At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $46 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
As of September 28, 2018, the Company had $10.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $2.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $3.2 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized $43 million and $83 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
During the quarter ended June 29, 2018, a tax indemnification liability of $23 million was paid to Lockheed Martin in accordance with the Tax Matters Agreement, which was presented as cash flows from financing activities in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, the Company collected $6 million of principal and interest on the Note.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $24 million and $63 million as of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
At March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2), which resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at September 28, 2018.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
In connection with the August 2018 amendments, the Company incurred $5 million of debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and revolving credit facility, which were recorded as an offset against the carrying value of debt and capitalized within "Other assets", respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $3 million and $10 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $62 million and $162 million, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate, certain tax benefits related to the anticipated sale of the Company's commercial cybersecurity business and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to employee stock awards.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, pursuant to the resolution of certain government accounting matters, including audits by the DCAA, the Company recorded a net reduction of $8 million and $14 million, respectively, to its accrued liabilities.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $84 million as of September 28, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.


item2.txt
During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, a net decrease in program volumes and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by new awards.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, net profit write-downs in the prior year and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards, a net increase in program volumes and higher net profit write-ups in the current year quarter, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound and higher net profit write-ups in the current year.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, higher net profit write-ups in the quarter and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, an increase in new awards, higher net profit write-ups and a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a net decrease in program volumes.
The decrease in revenues for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a lower level of commercial health revenues, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $20 million, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses.
The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $49 million, partially offset by an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher general and administrative expenses.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $104 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $60 million of proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swaps and lower payments for taxes and integration and restructuring costs.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased $34 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $40 million of proceeds from settlement of a promissory note, partially offset by higher purchases of property, plant and equipment.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


