item1.txt
The Company has elected to adopt certain practical expedients provided under ASC 842, including the option to not apply lease recognition for short-term leases, reassessment of whether expired or existing contracts contain leases, reassessment of lease classification for expired or existing leases, applying a single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations, reassessing initial direct costs and combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing the impairment for the ROU assets.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
When the lease does not include an implicit rate, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the commencement date.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases contain options to renew or extend the terms of the lease which are included in the determination of the ROU assets and lease liabilities when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on a index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
At March 29, 2019, the Company did not have any lease agreements with residual value guarantees.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
At March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the Company included $66 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company had $42 million of rental expense.
During the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $113 million and $55 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 28, 2018 and December 30, 2017 (date of adoption), respectively.
The Company received initial proceeds of $171 million and recorded a preliminary pre-tax gain on sale of $88 million, net of assets divested of $70 million and $13 million in transaction related costs and preliminary working capital adjustments.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment, which resulted in the identification of new operating segments and reporting units within Defense Solutions (see "Note 17–Business Segments").
The Company received proceeds of $31 million, net of selling costs for the property, which had a carrying value of $31 million.
On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sales and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA for consideration of $79 million, net of selling costs.
The Company received cash proceeds of $14 million upon closing in December 2018, and received the remaining $65 million cash proceeds in January 2019.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 12–Derivative Instruments").
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's note receivable of $24 million as of March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, approximates fair value as the stated interest rate within the agreement is consistent with current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
During the quarter ended March 29, 2019, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The Company expects to reclassify net gains of $11 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings during the next 12 months.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
During the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the Company made $31 million and $17 million of principal payments, respectively, on its long-term debt.
This activity included $27 million and $15 million of required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans during the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances.
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain (loss) on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 2.6 million shares at an average price of $63.52 per share.
See "Note 4–Leases" for additional supplementary cash flow information related to the Company's leases.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers it serves.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million, which has not been satisfied.
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of March 29, 2019.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $75 million as of March 29, 2019, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $46 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.


item2.txt
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 29, 2019, was 6.1%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 5.5%.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, the adverse impact of foreign exchange rates movement between the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar and higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by new awards.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter and the adverse impact of foreign exchange rates movement between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to new awards and lower amortization of intangibles, partially offset by higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter and the timing of material deliveries on certain contracts.
The increase in revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to a net increase in program volumes and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs and an asset impairment charge in the prior year quarter.
Non-operating income, net for the three months ended March 29, 2019 was $54 million as compared to non-operating expense, net of $34 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
For the three months ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate was 23.2% compared to 18.4% for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
Total backlog at March 29, 2019 included a favorable impact of $61 million when compared to total backlog at December 28, 2018, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


