item1.txt
ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, which the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 during the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (applied in the period of adoption), and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is consistent with the underlying book method.
The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standard in fiscal 2019 and is currently in the process of reviewing lease contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls and evaluating the impact of certain accounting policy elections.
The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The Company recognizes revenue on its service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company.
In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, the Company recognizes revenue at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
For certain performance obligations, the Company is not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, does not have inventory risk and does not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service.
At June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $63 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units-of-delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
As of June 29, 2018, the Company had $9.0 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $4.6 billion, $2.0 billion and $2.4 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $72 million and $127 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company recognized $37 million and $40 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018.
During the quarter ended June 29, 2018, a tax indemnification liability of $23 million was paid to Lockheed Martin in accordance with the Tax Matters Agreement, which was presented as cash flows from financing activities in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.6 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $63 million as of June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
At March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2), which resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at June 29, 2018.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $90 million and $100 million, respectively.
The Company made no changes to fiscal 2017 provisional amounts during the six months ended June 29, 2018.
Adverse findings could have a material effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to its reliance on government contracts.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $93 million as of June 29, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.


item2.txt
During the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and six months ended June 29, 2018.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, and improved program performance, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases.
The decrease in revenues for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by new awards and improved program performance.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was due to lower intangible asset amortization, improved program performance and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by completed contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion and reduced scope of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, reduced scope and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by lower amortization and a decrease in bad debt expense.
The increase in operating income for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, a decrease in bad debt expense and an increase in new awards, partially offset by reduced scope in the current year and higher profit write-ups in the prior year on certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts and higher intangible asset amortization, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $14 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $105 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to the favorable timing of working capital changes including improved collections of receivables and lower payments for taxes, integration and restructuring costs, partially offset by lower advance payments from customers and higher interest payments.
Net cash used in investing activities increased $4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year quarter partially offset by lower purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


