item1.txt
ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Effective December 30, 2017 (beginning of fiscal year 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact of the new standard was on certain of the Company’s units-of-delivery contracts, on which the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time and under ASC 606 are recognized using an over-time model.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantial majority of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transfered to the customer.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 in the first quarter of 2018 (applied in the period of adoption) and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the corporate tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is to be consistent with the underlying book method.
The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The Company recognizes revenue on its services contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company.
In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, the Company recognizes revenue at a point-in-time when the Customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
At March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $124 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units of delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had $8.9 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $5.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $2.4 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $55 million relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company recognized $3 million of amortization related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
The consideration received by the Company at closing consisted of a cash payment of $29 million and a secured promissory note for $73 million, net of discount (the “Note”).
The Company collected $6 million of principal and interest during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.6 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The carrying amounts of the Company’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $63 million as of March 30, 2018, and December 29, 2017, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2) (see "Note 12–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis using Level 3 inputs at March 30, 2018.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the “Notes”).
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $93 million as of March 30, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $137 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.


item2.txt
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 10% of total revenues for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 30, 2018, was 5.7% as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 5.3%.
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by revenues from new awards.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was due to net profit write-downs in the prior year quarter and stronger program performance in the current year quarter.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to stronger program performance and lower intangible asset amortization during the prior year quarter.
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization.
The increase in operating loss for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher corporate costs due to bid and proposal, business development and marketing.
During the three months ended March 30, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on an estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
We recognize revenue on our services contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


